docs/pages/application-access/guides/connecting-apps.mdx, before:

---
title: Use Teleport for Application Access
description: How to configure Teleport for Application Access.
---

# Connecting Web Applications

Download the latest version of Teleport for your platform from our [downloads page](https://goteleport.com/teleport/download)
and follow the installation [instructions](../../installation.mdx).

## Start Auth/Proxy service

Create a configuration file for a Teleport service that will be running
auth and proxy servers:

```yaml
teleport:
  data_dir: /var/lib/teleport
auth_service:
  enabled: "yes"
proxy_service:
  enabled: "yes"
  # Set public address proxy will be reachable at.
  public_addr: teleport.example.com:3080
ssh_service:
  enabled: "no"
```

(!docs/pages/includes/permission-warning.mdx!)

Start the service:

```code
$ sudo teleport start --config=/path/to/teleport.yaml
```

### Generate a token

A join token is required to authorize a Teleport Application Proxy service to
join the cluster. Generate a short-lived join token and save it for example
in `/tmp/token`:

```code
$ tctl tokens add \
    --type=app \
    --app-name=grafana \
    --app-uri=http://localhost:3000
```

### TLS requirements

TLS is required to secure Teleport's Access Plane and any connected
applications. When setting up Teleport, the minimum requirement is a certificate
for the proxy and a wildcard certificate for its sub-domain. This is where
everyone will log into Teleport.

In our example:

- `teleport.example.com` will host the Access Plane.
- `*.teleport.example.com` will host all of the applications e.g. `grafana.teleport.example.com`.

Teleport can obtain a certificate automatically from Let's Encrypt using
[ACME](https://letsencrypt.org/how-it-works/) protocol.

Enable ACME in your proxy config:

```yaml
proxy_service:
  enabled: "yes"
  web_listen_addr: "0.0.0.0:443"
  public_addr: "teleport.example.com:443"
  acme:
    enabled: "yes"
    email: alice@example.com
```

<Admonition
  type="note"
  title="Web Proxy Port"
>
  Teleport uses [TLS-ALPN-01](https://letsencrypt.org/docs/challenge-types/#tls-alpn-01)
  ACME challenge to validate certificate requests which only works on port `443`.  Make sure your Teleport proxy is accessible on port `443` when using ACME for certificate management.
</Admonition>

Alternatively, if you have obtained certificate/key pairs for your domain
(e.g. using [certbot](https://certbot.eff.org/)), they can be provided directly
to the proxy service:

```yaml
proxy_service:
  enabled: "yes"
  web_listen_addr: "0.0.0.0:443"
  public_addr: "teleport.example.com:443"
  https_keypairs:
  - key_file: "/etc/letsencrypt/live/teleport.example.com/privkey.pem"
    cert_file: "/etc/letsencrypt/live/teleport.example.com/fullchain.pem"
  - key_file: "/etc/letsencrypt/live/*.teleport.example.com/privkey.pem"
    cert_file: "/etc/letsencrypt/live/*.teleport.example.com/fullchain.pem"
```

### Create a user

A Teleport user needs their role's permission to access an application. Teleport
comes with a built-in `access` role that grants access to all apps:

```code
$ tctl --config=/path/to/teleport.yaml users add --roles=access appuser
```

## Start application service with CLI flags

A Teleport Application Proxy agent can be started with a single CLI command:

```code
$ sudo teleport start \
    --roles=app \
    --token=/tmp/token \
    --auth-server=teleport.example.com:3080 \
    --app-name="grafana" \
    --app-uri="http://localhost:3000" \
    --labels=env=dev
```

Note that the `--auth-server` flag must point to the Teleport cluster's proxy
endpoint because the application service always connects back to the cluster over
a reverse tunnel.

### Application name

An application name should make a valid sub-domain (\<=63 characters, no spaces, only `a-z 0-9 _ -` allowed).

After Teleport is running, users can access the app at `app-name.proxy_public_addr.com`
e.g. `grafana.teleport.example.com`. You can also override `public_addr` e.g
`grafana.acme.com` if you configure the appropriate DNS entry to point to the
Teleport proxy server.

## Start application service with a config file

Example `teleport.yaml` configuration:

```yaml
teleport:
  # Data directory for the Application Proxy service. If running on the same
  # node as Auth/Proxy service, make sure to use different data directories.
  data_dir: /var/lib/teleport-app
  # Instructs the service to load the join token from the specified file
  # during initial registration with the cluster.
  auth_token: /tmp/token
  # Proxy address to connect to. Note that it has to be the proxy address
  # because the app service always connects to the cluster over a reverse
  # tunnel.
  auth_servers:
  - teleport.example.com:3080
app_service:
    enabled: yes
    # Teleport provides a small debug app that can be used to make sure application
    # access is working correctly. It'll output JWTs so it can be useful
    # when extending your application.
    debug_app: true
    # This section contains definitions of all applications proxied by this
    # service. It can contain multiple items.
    apps:
      # Name of the application. Used for identification purposes.
    - name: "grafana"
      # URI and port the application is available at.
      uri: "http://localhost:3000"
      # Optional application public address to override.
      public_addr: "grafana.teleport.example.com"
      # Optional static labels to assign to the app. Used in RBAC.
      labels:
        env: "prod"
      # Optional dynamic labels to assign to the app. Used in RBAC.
      commands:
      - name: "os"
        command: ["/usr/bin/uname"]
        period: "5s"
auth_service:
  enabled: "no"
ssh_service:
  enabled: "no"
proxy_service:
  enabled: "no"
```

Start the application service:

```code
$ sudo teleport start --config=/path/to/teleport.yaml
```

## Advanced options

### Running the debug application

For testing and debugging purposes, we provide a built-in debug app. It can
be turned on using `debug_app: true`.

```yaml
app_service:
   enabled: yes
   debug_app: true
```

The app will dump all the request headers in the response.

### Customize public address

By default applications are available at `<app-name>.<proxy-host>:<proxy-port>`
address. To override the public address, specify the `public_addr` field:

```yaml
- name: "jira"
  uri: "https://localhost:8001"
  public_addr: "jira.example.com"
```

### Skip TLS certificate verification

<Admonition
  type="warning"
  title="Danger Zone"
>
  This is insecure and not recommended for use in production.
</Admonition>

Teleport checks if the certificates presented by the applications are signed
by a trusted Certificate Authority. When using self-signed certificates for
internal applications, use `insecure_skip_verify: true` to skip this
verification step:

```yaml
- name: "app"
  uri: "https://localhost:8443"
  public_addr: "app.example.com"
  insecure_skip_verify: true
```

### Deeplink to a subdirectory

Some applications are available in a subdirectory. Examples include the
[Kubernetes Dashboard.](https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/access-application-cluster/web-ui-dashboard/).
The URI should be updated to include the subdirectory:

```yaml
- name: "k8s"
  uri: "http://10.0.1.60:8001/api/v1/namespaces/kube-system/services/https:kubernetes-dashboard:/proxy/#/overview?namespace=default"
  public_addr: "k8s.example.com"
```

### Rewrite redirect

To support web apps that perform internal redirects, application access
provides an option to rewrite the hostname of the `Location` header on
redirect responses to the application's public address:

```yaml
- name: "jenkins"
  uri: "https://localhost:8001"
  public_addr: "jenkins.example.com"
  rewrite:
    # Rewrite the "Location" header on redirect responses replacing the
    # host with the public address of this application.
    redirect:
    - "localhost"
    - "jenkins.internal.dev"
```

### Headers passthrough

You can configure application access to inject additional headers in the
requests forwarded to a web application.

```yaml
- name: "dashboard"
  uri: https://localhost:4321
  public_addr: dashboard.example.com
  rewrite:
    headers:
    # Inject a static header.
    - "X-Custom-Header: example"
    # Inject hedaers with internal/external user traits.
    - "X-Internal-Trait: {{internal.logins}}"
    - "X-External-Trait: {{external.env}}"
    # Override Host header.
    - "Host: dashboard.example.com"
```

Headers injected this way override any headers with the same names that may
be sent by an application. The following headers are reserved and can't be
rewritten: `X-Teleport-Jwt`, `Cf-Access-Token`, `X-Forwarded-*`.

Rewritten header values support the same templating variables as [role templates](../../access-controls/guides/role-templates.mdx).
In the example above, `X-Internal-Trait` header will be populated with the value
of internal user trait `logins` and `X-External-Trait` header will get the value
of the user's external `env` trait coming from the identity provider.

## View applications in Teleport

Teleport provides a UI for quickly launching connected applications.

They can be viewed by navigating to a cluster's web UI and selecting the "Applications" tab.
The URL structure looks like this:

`https://[cluster-url:cluster-port]/web/cluster/[cluster-name]/apps`

## Logging out of applications

When you log into an application, you'll get a certificate and login session
per your defined RBAC. If you want to force log out before this period you can
do so by hitting the `/teleport-logout` endpoint:

- `https://internal-app.teleport.example.com/teleport-logout`

Commit message:

Standardize ACME instruction details
Our Getting Started guides often include instructions for
configuring Let's Encrypt and ACME before starting
Teleport, but not all of these instructions have the same
level of detail, and some are missing some context around
how Teleport uses ACME and why you need to open port 443 on
your Proxy Service host. This change adds an include that
spells out these instructions and invokes the include in the
appropriate guides.

The intention was to include as much relevant information within
the guides themselves to prevent the reader from having to
navigate to other pages.

Closes #6448

docs/pages/application-access/guides/connecting-apps.mdx, after:

---
title: Use Teleport for Application Access
description: How to configure Teleport for Application Access.
---

# Connecting Web Applications

Download the latest version of Teleport for your platform from our [downloads page](https://goteleport.com/teleport/download)
and follow the installation [instructions](../../installation.mdx).

## Start Auth/Proxy service

Create a configuration file for a Teleport service that will be running
auth and proxy servers:

```yaml
teleport:
  data_dir: /var/lib/teleport
auth_service:
  enabled: "yes"
proxy_service:
  enabled: "yes"
  # Set public address proxy will be reachable at.
  public_addr: teleport.example.com:3080
ssh_service:
  enabled: "no"
```

(!docs/pages/includes/permission-warning.mdx!)

Start the service:

```code
$ sudo teleport start --config=/path/to/teleport.yaml
```

### Generate a token

A join token is required to authorize a Teleport Application Proxy service to
join the cluster. Generate a short-lived join token and save it for example
in `/tmp/token`:

```code
$ tctl tokens add \
    --type=app \
    --app-name=grafana \
    --app-uri=http://localhost:3000
```

### TLS requirements

TLS is required to secure Teleport's Access Plane and any connected
applications. When setting up Teleport, the minimum requirement is a certificate
for the proxy and a wildcard certificate for its sub-domain. This is where
everyone will log into Teleport.

In our example:

- `teleport.example.com` will host the Access Plane.
- `*.teleport.example.com` will host all of the applications e.g. `grafana.teleport.example.com`.

You can either configure Teleport to obtain a TLS certificate via Let's Encrypt or use an existing certificate and private key (e.g. using [certbot](https://certbot.eff.org/)).
<Tabs>
<TabItem label="Let's Encrypt">
(!docs/pages/includes/acme.mdx!)
</TabItem>
<TabItem label="Existing Credentials">
If you have obtained certificate/key pairs for your domain they can be provided directly
to the proxy service:

```yaml
proxy_service:
  enabled: "yes"
  web_listen_addr: "0.0.0.0:443"
  public_addr: "teleport.example.com:443"
  https_keypairs:
  - key_file: "/etc/letsencrypt/live/teleport.example.com/privkey.pem"
    cert_file: "/etc/letsencrypt/live/teleport.example.com/fullchain.pem"
  - key_file: "/etc/letsencrypt/live/*.teleport.example.com/privkey.pem"
    cert_file: "/etc/letsencrypt/live/*.teleport.example.com/fullchain.pem"
```
</TabItem>
</Tabs>

### Create a user

A Teleport user needs their role's permission to access an application. Teleport
comes with a built-in `access` role that grants access to all apps:

```code
$ tctl --config=/path/to/teleport.yaml users add --roles=access appuser
```

## Start application service with CLI flags

A Teleport Application Proxy agent can be started with a single CLI command:

```code
$ sudo teleport start \
    --roles=app \
    --token=/tmp/token \
    --auth-server=teleport.example.com:3080 \
    --app-name="grafana" \
    --app-uri="http://localhost:3000" \
    --labels=env=dev
```

Note that the `--auth-server` flag must point to the Teleport cluster's proxy
endpoint because the application service always connects back to the cluster over
a reverse tunnel.

### Application name

An application name should make a valid sub-domain (\<=63 characters, no spaces, only `a-z 0-9 _ -` allowed).

After Teleport is running, users can access the app at `app-name.proxy_public_addr.com`
e.g. `grafana.teleport.example.com`. You can also override `public_addr` e.g
`grafana.acme.com` if you configure the appropriate DNS entry to point to the
Teleport proxy server.

## Start application service with a config file

Example `teleport.yaml` configuration:

```yaml
teleport:
  # Data directory for the Application Proxy service. If running on the same
  # node as Auth/Proxy service, make sure to use different data directories.
  data_dir: /var/lib/teleport-app
  # Instructs the service to load the join token from the specified file
  # during initial registration with the cluster.
  auth_token: /tmp/token
  # Proxy address to connect to. Note that it has to be the proxy address
  # because the app service always connects to the cluster over a reverse
  # tunnel.
  auth_servers:
  - teleport.example.com:3080
app_service:
    enabled: yes
    # Teleport provides a small debug app that can be used to make sure application
    # access is working correctly. It'll output JWTs so it can be useful
    # when extending your application.
    debug_app: true
    # This section contains definitions of all applications proxied by this
    # service. It can contain multiple items.
    apps:
      # Name of the application. Used for identification purposes.
    - name: "grafana"
      # URI and port the application is available at.
      uri: "http://localhost:3000"
      # Optional application public address to override.
      public_addr: "grafana.teleport.example.com"
      # Optional static labels to assign to the app. Used in RBAC.
      labels:
        env: "prod"
      # Optional dynamic labels to assign to the app. Used in RBAC.
      commands:
      - name: "os"
        command: ["/usr/bin/uname"]
        period: "5s"
auth_service:
  enabled: "no"
ssh_service:
  enabled: "no"
proxy_service:
  enabled: "no"
```

Start the application service:

```code
$ sudo teleport start --config=/path/to/teleport.yaml
```

## Advanced options

### Running the debug application

For testing and debugging purposes, we provide a built-in debug app. It can
be turned on using `debug_app: true`.

```yaml
app_service:
   enabled: yes
   debug_app: true
```

The app will dump all the request headers in the response.

### Customize public address

By default applications are available at `<app-name>.<proxy-host>:<proxy-port>`
address. To override the public address, specify the `public_addr` field:

```yaml
- name: "jira"
  uri: "https://localhost:8001"
  public_addr: "jira.example.com"
```

### Skip TLS certificate verification

<Admonition
  type="warning"
  title="Danger Zone"
>
  This is insecure and not recommended for use in production.
</Admonition>

Teleport checks if the certificates presented by the applications are signed
by a trusted Certificate Authority. When using self-signed certificates for
internal applications, use `insecure_skip_verify: true` to skip this
verification step:

```yaml
- name: "app"
  uri: "https://localhost:8443"
  public_addr: "app.example.com"
  insecure_skip_verify: true
```

### Deeplink to a subdirectory

Some applications are available in a subdirectory. Examples include the
[Kubernetes Dashboard.](https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/access-application-cluster/web-ui-dashboard/).
The URI should be updated to include the subdirectory:

```yaml
- name: "k8s"
  uri: "http://10.0.1.60:8001/api/v1/namespaces/kube-system/services/https:kubernetes-dashboard:/proxy/#/overview?namespace=default"
  public_addr: "k8s.example.com"
```

### Rewrite redirect

To support web apps that perform internal redirects, application access
provides an option to rewrite the hostname of the `Location` header on
redirect responses to the application's public address:

```yaml
- name: "jenkins"
  uri: "https://localhost:8001"
  public_addr: "jenkins.example.com"
  rewrite:
    # Rewrite the "Location" header on redirect responses replacing the
    # host with the public address of this application.
    redirect:
    - "localhost"
    - "jenkins.internal.dev"
```

### Headers passthrough

You can configure application access to inject additional headers in the
requests forwarded to a web application.

```yaml
- name: "dashboard"
  uri: https://localhost:4321
  public_addr: dashboard.example.com
  rewrite:
    headers:
    # Inject a static header.
    - "X-Custom-Header: example"
    # Inject hedaers with internal/external user traits.
    - "X-Internal-Trait: {{internal.logins}}"
    - "X-External-Trait: {{external.env}}"
    # Override Host header.
    - "Host: dashboard.example.com"
```

Headers injected this way override any headers with the same names that may
be sent by an application. The following headers are reserved and can't be
rewritten: `X-Teleport-Jwt`, `Cf-Access-Token`, `X-Forwarded-*`.

Rewritten header values support the same templating variables as [role templates](../../access-controls/guides/role-templates.mdx).
In the example above, `X-Internal-Trait` header will be populated with the value
of internal user trait `logins` and `X-External-Trait` header will get the value
of the user's external `env` trait coming from the identity provider.

## View applications in Teleport

Teleport provides a UI for quickly launching connected applications.

They can be viewed by navigating to a cluster's web UI and selecting the "Applications" tab.
The URL structure looks like this:

`https://[cluster-url:cluster-port]/web/cluster/[cluster-name]/apps`

## Logging out of applications

When you log into an application, you'll get a certificate and login session
per your defined RBAC. If you want to force log out before this period you can
do so by hitting the `/teleport-logout` endpoint:

- `https://internal-app.teleport.example.com/teleport-logout`
