docs/pages/application-access/getting-started.mdx, before:

---
title: Getting Started with Teleport Application Access
description: Getting started with Teleport Application Access.
videoBanner: 5Uwhp3IQMHY
---

# Getting Started

Let's connect to Grafana using Teleport Application Access in three steps:

- Launch Grafana in a Docker container.
- Install Teleport and configure it to proxy Grafana.
- Access Grafana through Teleport.

## Prerequisites

- We will use Docker to launch Grafana in a container. Alternatively, if you have another web application you'd like to protect with App Access, you can use that instead.
- We will assume your Teleport cluster is accessible at `teleport.example.com` and `*.teleport.example.com`. Configured DNS records are required to automatically fetch a [Let's Encrypt](https://letsencrypt.org) certificate.

## Step 1/3. Start Grafana

We've picked Grafana for this tutorial since it's very easy to run with zero
configuration required. If you have another web application you'd like to
expose, skip over to **Step 2**.

Grafana can be launched in a [Docker container](https://grafana.com/docs/grafana/latest/installation/docker/)
with a single command:

```code
$ docker run -d -p 3000:3000 grafana/grafana
```

## Step 2/3. Install and configure Teleport

Download the latest version of Teleport for your platform from our
[downloads page](https://goteleport.com/teleport/download).

Teleport requires a valid TLS certificate to operate and can fetch one automatically
using Let's Encrypt [ACME](https://letsencrypt.org/how-it-works/) protocol.

We will assume that you have configured DNS records for `teleport.example.com`
and `*.teleport.example.com` to point to the Teleport node.

(!docs/pages/includes/permission-warning.mdx!)

Let's generate a Teleport config with ACME enabled:

```code
$ sudo teleport configure --cluster-name=teleport.example.com --acme --acme-email=alice@example.com -o file
```

<Admonition
  type="note"
  title="Web Proxy Port"
>
  Teleport uses [TLS-ALPN-01](https://letsencrypt.org/docs/challenge-types/#tls-alpn-01)
  ACME challenge to validate certificate requests which only works on port `443`. Make sure your Teleport proxy is accessible on port `443` when using ACME for certificate management.
</Admonition>

Now start Teleport and point it to the application endpoint:

```code
$ sudo teleport start \
  --roles=proxy,auth,app \
  --app-name=grafana \
  --app-uri=http://localhost:3000
```

Make sure to update `--app-name` and `--app-uri` accordingly if you're using
your own web application.

Next, let's create a user to access the application we've just connected. Teleport has a built-in role called `access` that allows users to access cluster resources. Create a local user assigned this role:

```code
$ tctl users add --roles=access alice
```

The command will output a signup link. Use it to choose a password and set up a second factor. After that, it will take you to the Teleport web UI.

## Step 3/3. Access the application

There are a couple of ways to access the proxied application.

Every application is assigned a public address which you use to navigate to
the application directly. In our sample Grafana application we have provided a public address with
the `--app-public-addr` flag, so go to `https://grafana.teleport.example.com`
(replace with your app public address) to access the app. If you're not logged into Teleport,
you will need to authenticate before the application will show.

Alternatively, log into the Teleport Web Interface at `https://teleport.example.com` (replace with your proxy public address). All available applications are displayed on the Applications tab. Click on the Grafana application tile to access it.

## Next steps

Dive deeper into the topics relevant to your Application Access use-case:

- Learn in more detail about [connecting applications](./guides/connecting-apps.mdx) with Application Access.
- Learn about integrating with [JWT tokens](./guides/jwt.mdx) for auth.
- Learn how to use Application Access with [RESTful APIs](./guides/api-access.mdx).
- See full configuration and CLI [reference](./reference.mdx).

Commit message:

Add notes about wildcard certificates
Guides to getting started with Teleport on various platforms
recommend creating a DNS record for *.teleport.com. It would help
prospective users to know why this is needed. This change adds
context for why Application Access requires a wildcard subdomain.

Fixes #5378

docs/pages/application-access/getting-started.mdx, after:

---
title: Getting Started with Teleport Application Access
description: Getting started with Teleport Application Access.
videoBanner: 5Uwhp3IQMHY
---

# Getting Started

Let's connect to Grafana using Teleport Application Access in three steps:

- Launch Grafana in a Docker container.
- Install Teleport and configure it to proxy Grafana.
- Access Grafana through Teleport.

## Prerequisites

- We will use Docker to launch Grafana in a container. Alternatively, if you have another web application you'd like to protect with App Access, you can use that instead.
- We will assume your Teleport cluster is accessible at `teleport.example.com` and `*.teleport.example.com`. Configured DNS records are required to automatically fetch a [Let's Encrypt](https://letsencrypt.org) certificate. 

<Admonition type="note" title="Teleport and Wildcard Certificates">
Teleport assigns a subdomain to each application you have configured for Application Access (e.g., `grafana.teleport.example.com`), so you need to create a DNS A record with a wildcard subdomain (e.g., `*.teleport.example.com`). This way, Let's Encrypt can issue a wildcard certificate, enabling clients to verify your Teleport hosts regardless of the application they are accessing.
</Admonition>

## Step 1/3. Start Grafana

We've picked Grafana for this tutorial since it's very easy to run with zero
configuration required. If you have another web application you'd like to
expose, skip over to **Step 2**.

Grafana can be launched in a [Docker container](https://grafana.com/docs/grafana/latest/installation/docker/)
with a single command:

```code
$ docker run -d -p 3000:3000 grafana/grafana
```

## Step 2/3. Install and configure Teleport

Download the latest version of Teleport for your platform from our
[downloads page](https://goteleport.com/teleport/download).

Teleport requires a valid TLS certificate to operate and can fetch one automatically
using Let's Encrypt [ACME](https://letsencrypt.org/how-it-works/) protocol.

We will assume that you have configured DNS records for `teleport.example.com`
and `*.teleport.example.com` to point to the Teleport node.

<Admonition type="note" title="Why do I need a wildcard certificate?">
Teleport assigns a subdomain to each application you have configured for Application Access (e.g., `grafana.teleport.example.com`), so the wildcard certificate enables clients to verify your Teleport hosts regardless of application.
</Admonition>

(!docs/pages/includes/permission-warning.mdx!)

Let's generate a Teleport config with ACME enabled:

```code
$ sudo teleport configure --cluster-name=teleport.example.com --acme --acme-email=alice@example.com -o file
```

<Admonition
  type="note"
  title="Web Proxy Port"
>
  Teleport uses [TLS-ALPN-01](https://letsencrypt.org/docs/challenge-types/#tls-alpn-01)
  ACME challenge to validate certificate requests which only works on port `443`. Make sure your Teleport proxy is accessible on port `443` when using ACME for certificate management.
</Admonition>

Now start Teleport and point it to the application endpoint:

```code
$ sudo teleport start \
  --roles=proxy,auth,app \
  --app-name=grafana \
  --app-uri=http://localhost:3000
```

Make sure to update `--app-name` and `--app-uri` accordingly if you're using
your own web application.

Next, let's create a user to access the application we've just connected. Teleport has a built-in role called `access` that allows users to access cluster resources. Create a local user assigned this role:

```code
$ tctl users add --roles=access alice
```

The command will output a signup link. Use it to choose a password and set up a second factor. After that, it will take you to the Teleport web UI.

## Step 3/3. Access the application

There are a couple of ways to access the proxied application.

Every application is assigned a public address which you use to navigate to
the application directly. In our sample Grafana application we have provided a public address with
the `--app-public-addr` flag, so go to `https://grafana.teleport.example.com`
(replace with your app public address) to access the app. If you're not logged into Teleport,
you will need to authenticate before the application will show.

Alternatively, log into the Teleport Web Interface at `https://teleport.example.com` (replace with your proxy public address). All available applications are displayed on the Applications tab. Click on the Grafana application tile to access it.

## Next steps

Dive deeper into the topics relevant to your Application Access use-case:

- Learn in more detail about [connecting applications](./guides/connecting-apps.mdx) with Application Access.
- Learn about integrating with [JWT tokens](./guides/jwt.mdx) for auth.
- Learn how to use Application Access with [RESTful APIs](./guides/api-access.mdx).
- See full configuration and CLI [reference](./reference.mdx).
