docs/pages/database-access/guides/mongodb-self-hosted.mdx, before:

---
title: Database Access with Self-Hosted MongoDB
description: How to configure Teleport Database Access with self-hosted MongoDB.
videoBanner: 6lgVObxoLkc
---

# Self-Hosted MongoDB

In this guide you will:

1. Install and configure Teleport for Database Access.
2. Configure mutual TLS authentication between Teleport and your MongoDB cluster.
3. Connect to your MongoDB instance via Teleport.

## Prerequisites

- Teleport version `7.0` or newer.
- MongoDB cluster (standalone or replica set) version `(=mongodb.min_version=)` or newer.

<Admonition type="note">
  Teleport Database Access supports MongoDB `(=mongodb.min_version=)` and newer.
  Older versions have not been tested and are not guaranteed to work. MongoDB
  `(=mongodb.min_version=)` was released in November 2017 and reached EOL in
  April 2021 so if you're still using an older version, consider upgrading.
</Admonition>

## Step 1/3. Install & configure Teleport

### Setup Teleport Auth and Proxy services

(!docs/pages/includes/database-access/start-auth-proxy.mdx!)

### Setup Teleport Database service

(!docs/pages/includes/database-access/token.mdx!)

Start Teleport Database service:

```code
$ teleport db start \
  --token=/tmp/token \
  --auth-server=teleport.example.com:3080 \
  --name=example-mongo \
  --protocol=mongodb \
  --uri=mongo.example.com:27017 \
  --labels=env=dev
```

<Admonition type="note">
The `--auth-server` flag must point to the Teleport cluster's proxy endpoint
because database service always connects back to the cluster over a reverse
tunnel.
</Admonition>

You can specify either a single connection address or a MongoDB
[connection string](https://docs.mongodb.com/manual/reference/connection-string/)
as a URI. For example, when connecting to a replica set:

```code
$ --uri="mongodb://mongo1.example.com:27017,mongo2.example.com:27017/?replicaSet=rs0"
```

By default, Teleport will connect to the primary replica set member. If you'd
like to connect to a secondary instead, Teleport will respect `readPreference`
connection string setting:

```code
$ --uri="mongodb://mongo1.example.com:27017,mongo2.example.com:27017/?replicaSet=rs0&readPreference=secondary"
```

<Admonition type="tip">
  You can start Database service using configuration file instead of CLI flags.
  See [YAML reference](../reference/configuration.mdx).
</Admonition>

### Create Teleport user

(!docs/pages/includes/database-access/create-user.mdx!)

## Step 2/3. Configure MongoDB

### Create MongoDB user

Teleport will use [X.509 authentication](https://docs.mongodb.com/manual/tutorial/configure-x509-client-authentication/)
when connecting to a MongoDB instance. Users authenticating with client certificates
must be created in the `$external` MongoDB authentication database.

MongoDB treats the entire `Subject` line of the client certificate as a username.
When connecting to a MongoDB server, say as a user `alice`, Teleport will sign
an ephemeral certificate with `CN=alice` subject.

To create this user in the database, connect to it using the `mongosh` or `mongo` shell and run
the following command:

```js
db.getSiblingDB("$external").runCommand(
  {
    createUser: "CN=alice",
    roles: [
      { role: "readWriteAnyDatabase", db: "admin" }
    ]
  }
)
```

Update the [roles](https://docs.mongodb.com/manual/tutorial/manage-users-and-roles/)
accordingly to grant the user appropriate database permissions.

### Setup mutual TLS

(!docs/pages/includes/database-access/tctl-auth-sign.mdx!)

Create the secrets:

<Tabs>
  <TabItem label="Standalone">
  When connecting to standalone MongoDB, sign certificate for the hostname over
  which Teleport will be connecting to it.

  For example, if your MongoDB server is accessible at `mongo.example.com`
  hostname, run:

  ```code
  $ tctl auth sign --format=mongodb --host=mongo.example.com --out=mongo --ttl=2190h
  ```

  (!docs/pages/includes/database-access/ttl-note.mdx!)

  The command will create 2 files: `mongo.cas` with Teleport's certificate
  authority and `mongo.crt` with generated certificate and key pair. You will
  need these files to enable mutual TLS on your MongoDB server.
  </TabItem>
  <TabItem label="Replica set">
  When connecting to a MongoDB replica set, sign certificates for each member
  using the hostnames they're accessible at.

  For example, if the first member is accessible at `mongo1.example.com` and
  the second at `mongo2.example.com`, run:

  ```code
  $ tctl auth sign --format=mongodb --host=mongo1.example.com --out=mongo1 --ttl=2190h
  $ tctl auth sign --format=mongodb --host=mongo2.example.com --out=mongo2 --ttl=2190h
  ```

  (!docs/pages/includes/database-access/ttl-note.mdx!)

  Each command will create 2 files: `mongo1.cas`/`mongo2.cas` with Teleport's
  certificate authority and `mongo1.crt`/`mongo2.crt` with generated certificate
  and key pair. You will need these files to enable mutual TLS on your MongoDB
  servers.
  </TabItem>
</Tabs>

(!docs/pages/includes/database-access/rotation-note.mdx!)

Use the generated secrets to enable mutual TLS in your `mongod.conf` configuration
file and restart the database:

<Tabs>
  <TabItem label="MongoDB 3.6 - 4.2">
  ```yaml
  net:
    ssl:
      mode: requireSSL
      PEMKeyFile: /etc/certs/mongo.crt
      CAFile: /etc/certs/mongo.cas
  ```
  </TabItem>
  <TabItem label="MongoDB 4.2+">
  ```yaml
  net:
    tls:
      mode: requireTLS
      certificateKeyFile: /etc/certs/mongo.crt
      CAFile: /etc/certs/mongo.cas
  ```
  </TabItem>
</Tabs>

When configuring a replica set, make sure to do it for each member and use
secrets generated for the particular server.

Once mutual TLS has been enabled, you will no longer be able to connect to
the cluster without providing a valid client certificate. You can use
`net.tls.allowConnectionsWithoutCertificates` setting to allow connections
from clients that do not present a certificate.

See [Configure TLS/SSL](https://docs.mongodb.com/manual/tutorial/configure-ssl/)
in MongoDB documentation for more details.

## Step 3/3. Connect

Log into your Teleport cluster and see available databases:

```code
$ tsh login --proxy=teleport.example.com --user=alice
$ tsh db ls
# Name          Description     Labels
# ------------- --------------- --------
# example-mongo Example MongoDB env=dev
```

To connect to a particular database instance, first retrieve its certificate
using `tsh db login` command:

```code
$ tsh db login example-mongo
```

<Admonition type="tip">
  You can be logged into multiple databases simultaneously.
</Admonition>

You can optionally specify the database name and the user to use by default
when connecting to the database instance:

```code
$ tsh db login --db-user=alice example-mongo
```

Once logged in, connect to the database:

```code
$ tsh db connect example-mongo
```

<Admonition type="note" title="Note">
  Either the `mongosh` or `mongo` command-line clients should be available in PATH in order to be
  able to connect. The Database Service attempts to run `mongosh` first and, if `mongosh` is not in PATH, runs `mongo`.
</Admonition>

<Admonition type="note" title="Note">
  Teleport 9.0 added support for `mongosh` and made it the default Mongo DB client.
</Admonition>

To log out of the database and remove credentials:

```code
# Remove credentials for a particular database instance.
$ tsh db logout example-mongo
# Remove credentials for all database instances.
$ tsh db logout
```

## Next steps

(!docs/pages/includes/database-access/guides-next-steps.mdx!)

Commit message:

Minor tweaks to remaining Database Access guides
- Mention Teleport Cloud
- Add small stylistic changes

docs/pages/database-access/guides/mongodb-self-hosted.mdx, after:

---
title: Database Access with Self-Hosted MongoDB
description: How to configure Teleport Database Access with self-hosted MongoDB.
videoBanner: 6lgVObxoLkc
---

In this guide you will:

1. Install and configure Teleport for Database Access.
2. Configure mutual TLS authentication between Teleport and your MongoDB cluster.
3. Connect to your MongoDB instance via Teleport.

## Prerequisites

- Teleport version `7.0` or newer.
- MongoDB cluster (standalone or replica set) version `(=mongodb.min_version=)` or newer.

<Admonition type="note">
  Teleport Database Access supports MongoDB `(=mongodb.min_version=)` and newer.
  Older versions have not been tested and are not guaranteed to work. MongoDB
  `(=mongodb.min_version=)` was released in November 2017 and reached EOL in
  April 2021 so if you're still using an older version, consider upgrading.
</Admonition>

## Step 1/3. Install and configure Teleport

### Set up the Teleport Auth and Proxy services

(!docs/pages/includes/database-access/start-auth-proxy.mdx!)

### Setup Teleport Database service

(!docs/pages/includes/database-access/token.mdx!)

Start the Teleport Database Service, pointing the `--auth-server` flag to the address of your Teleport Proxy Service (for Teleport Cloud users, this will resemble `mytenant.teleport.sh`):

```code
$ teleport db start \
  --token=/tmp/token \
  --auth-server=teleport.example.com:3080 \
  --name=example-mongo \
  --protocol=mongodb \
  --uri=mongo.example.com:27017 \
  --labels=env=dev
```

<Admonition type="note">
The `--auth-server` flag must point to the Teleport cluster's proxy endpoint
because the Database Service always connects back to the cluster over a reverse
tunnel.
</Admonition>

You can specify either a single connection address or a MongoDB
[connection string](https://docs.mongodb.com/manual/reference/connection-string/)
as a URI. For example, when connecting to a replica set:

```code
$ --uri="mongodb://mongo1.example.com:27017,mongo2.example.com:27017/?replicaSet=rs0"
```

By default, Teleport will connect to the primary replica set member. If you'd
like to connect to a secondary instead, Teleport will respect `readPreference`
connection string setting:

```code
$ --uri="mongodb://mongo1.example.com:27017,mongo2.example.com:27017/?replicaSet=rs0&readPreference=secondary"
```

<Admonition type="tip">
  You can start the Database Service using a configuration file instead of CLI flags.
  See [YAML reference](../reference/configuration.mdx).
</Admonition>

### Create Teleport user

(!docs/pages/includes/database-access/create-user.mdx!)

## Step 2/3. Configure MongoDB

### Create MongoDB user

Teleport will use [X.509 authentication](https://docs.mongodb.com/manual/tutorial/configure-x509-client-authentication/)
when connecting to a MongoDB instance. Users authenticating with client certificates
must be created in the `$external` MongoDB authentication database.

MongoDB treats the entire `Subject` line of the client certificate as a username.
When connecting to a MongoDB server, say as a user `alice`, Teleport will sign
an ephemeral certificate with `CN=alice` subject.

To create this user in the database, connect to it using the `mongosh` or `mongo` shell and run
the following command:

```js
db.getSiblingDB("$external").runCommand(
  {
    createUser: "CN=alice",
    roles: [
      { role: "readWriteAnyDatabase", db: "admin" }
    ]
  }
)
```

Update the [roles](https://docs.mongodb.com/manual/tutorial/manage-users-and-roles/)
accordingly to grant the user appropriate database permissions.

### Set up mutual TLS

(!docs/pages/includes/database-access/tctl-auth-sign.mdx!)

Create the secrets:

<Tabs>
  <TabItem label="Standalone">
  When connecting to standalone MongoDB, sign the certificate for the hostname over
  which Teleport will be connecting to it.

  For example, if your MongoDB server is accessible at `mongo.example.com`
  hostname, run:

  ```code
  $ tctl auth sign --format=mongodb --host=mongo.example.com --out=mongo --ttl=2190h
  ```

  (!docs/pages/includes/database-access/ttl-note.mdx!)

  The command will create two files: `mongo.cas` with Teleport's certificate
  authority and `mongo.crt` with generated certificate and key pair. You will
  need these files to enable mutual TLS on your MongoDB server.
  </TabItem>
  <TabItem label="Replica set">
  When connecting to a MongoDB replica set, sign certificates for each member
  using the hostnames they're accessible at.

  For example, if the first member is accessible at `mongo1.example.com` and
  the second at `mongo2.example.com`, run:

  ```code
  $ tctl auth sign --format=mongodb --host=mongo1.example.com --out=mongo1 --ttl=2190h
  $ tctl auth sign --format=mongodb --host=mongo2.example.com --out=mongo2 --ttl=2190h
  ```

  (!docs/pages/includes/database-access/ttl-note.mdx!)

  Each command will create two files: `mongo1.cas`/`mongo2.cas` with Teleport's
  certificate authority and `mongo1.crt`/`mongo2.crt` with generated certificate
  and key pair. You will need these files to enable mutual TLS on your MongoDB
  servers.
  </TabItem>
</Tabs>

(!docs/pages/includes/database-access/rotation-note.mdx!)

Use the generated secrets to enable mutual TLS in your `mongod.conf` configuration
file and restart the database:

<Tabs>
  <TabItem label="MongoDB 3.6 - 4.2">
  ```yaml
  net:
    ssl:
      mode: requireSSL
      PEMKeyFile: /etc/certs/mongo.crt
      CAFile: /etc/certs/mongo.cas
  ```
  </TabItem>
  <TabItem label="MongoDB 4.2+">
  ```yaml
  net:
    tls:
      mode: requireTLS
      certificateKeyFile: /etc/certs/mongo.crt
      CAFile: /etc/certs/mongo.cas
  ```
  </TabItem>
</Tabs>

When configuring a replica set, make sure to do it for each member and use
secrets generated for the particular server.

Once mutual TLS has been enabled, you will no longer be able to connect to
the cluster without providing a valid client certificate. You can use
`net.tls.allowConnectionsWithoutCertificates` setting to allow connections
from clients that do not present a certificate.

See [Configure TLS/SSL](https://docs.mongodb.com/manual/tutorial/configure-ssl/)
in MongoDB documentation for more details.

## Step 3/3. Connect

Log into your Teleport cluster and see available databases:

```code
$ tsh login --proxy=teleport.example.com --user=alice
$ tsh db ls
# Name          Description     Labels
# ------------- --------------- --------
# example-mongo Example MongoDB env=dev
```

To connect to a particular database instance, first retrieve its certificate
using `tsh db login` command:

```code
$ tsh db login example-mongo
```

<Admonition type="tip">
  You can be logged into multiple databases simultaneously.
</Admonition>

You can optionally specify the database name and the user to use by default
when connecting to the database instance:

```code
$ tsh db login --db-user=alice example-mongo
```

Once logged in, connect to the database:

```code
$ tsh db connect example-mongo
```

<Admonition type="note" title="Note">
  Either the `mongosh` or `mongo` command-line clients should be available in PATH in order to be
  able to connect. The Database Service attempts to run `mongosh` first and, if `mongosh` is not in PATH, runs `mongo`.
</Admonition>

<Admonition type="note" title="Note">
  Teleport 9.0 added support for `mongosh` and made it the default Mongo DB client.
</Admonition>

To log out of the database and remove credentials:

```code
# Remove credentials for a particular database instance.
$ tsh db logout example-mongo
# Remove credentials for all database instances.
$ tsh db logout
```

## Next steps

(!docs/pages/includes/database-access/guides-next-steps.mdx!)
