docs/pages/kubernetes-access/helm/includes/helm-install.mdx, before:

## Prerequisites

- [Kubernetes](https://kubernetes.io) >= v(=kubernetes.major_version=).(=kubernetes.minor_version=).0
- [Helm](https://helm.sh) >= v(=helm.version=)

Verify that Helm and Kubernetes are installed and up to date.

(!docs/pages/includes/permission-warning.mdx!)

## Step 1. Install Helm

Teleport's charts require the use of Helm version 3. You can [install Helm 3 by following these instructions](https://helm.sh/docs/intro/install/).

Throughout this guide, we will assume that you have the `helm` and `kubectl` binaries available in your `PATH`:

```code
$ helm version
# version.BuildInfo{Version:"v(=helm.version=)"}

$ kubectl version
# Client Version: version.Info{Major:"(=kubernetes.major_version=)", Minor:"(=kubernetes.minor_version=)+"}
# Server Version: version.Info{Major:"(=kubernetes.major_version=)", Minor:"(=kubernetes.minor_version=)+"}
```

## Step 2. Add the Teleport Helm chart repository

To allow Helm to install charts that are hosted in the Teleport Helm repository, use `helm repo add`:

```code
$ helm repo add teleport (=teleport.helm_repo_url=)
```

To update the cache of charts from the remote repository, run `helm repo update`:

```code
$ helm repo update
```

Commit message:

Add a Cloud compatibility warning to Helm guides
Our Helm guides show readers how to use the teleport-cluster
chart, which deploys the Auth and Proxy services. This change adds
a note that Cloud users should use our teleport-kube-agent chart
instead.

docs/pages/kubernetes-access/helm/includes/helm-install.mdx, after:

## Prerequisites

- [Kubernetes](https://kubernetes.io) >= v(=kubernetes.major_version=).(=kubernetes.minor_version=).0
- [Helm](https://helm.sh) >= v(=helm.version=)

<Details scopeOnly={true} scope={["cloud"]} title="Teleport Cloud warning">
This guide shows you how to install the `teleport-cluster` Helm chart, which is intended to help you get started with Teleport by deploying the Auth Service and Proxy Service in a Kubernetes cluster.

Since the Auth and Proxy Services are fully managed in Teleport Cloud, you should install our `teleport-kube-agent` chart, which is intended for deployments where the Auth Service and Proxy Service run outside your Kubernetes cluster.

For more information, see our [Helm chart reference](../reference.mdx#teleport-kube-agent).
</Details>

Verify that Helm and Kubernetes are installed and up to date.

(!docs/pages/includes/permission-warning.mdx!)

## Step 1. Install Helm

Teleport's charts require the use of Helm version 3. You can [install Helm 3 by following these instructions](https://helm.sh/docs/intro/install/).

Throughout this guide, we will assume that you have the `helm` and `kubectl` binaries available in your `PATH`:

```code
$ helm version
# version.BuildInfo{Version:"v(=helm.version=)"}

$ kubectl version
# Client Version: version.Info{Major:"(=kubernetes.major_version=)", Minor:"(=kubernetes.minor_version=)+"}
# Server Version: version.Info{Major:"(=kubernetes.major_version=)", Minor:"(=kubernetes.minor_version=)+"}
```

## Step 2. Add the Teleport Helm chart repository

To allow Helm to install charts that are hosted in the Teleport Helm repository, use `helm repo add`:

```code
$ helm repo add teleport (=teleport.helm_repo_url=)
```

To update the cache of charts from the remote repository, run `helm repo update`:

```code
$ helm repo update
```
