docs/pages/setup/guides/docker.mdx, before:

---
title: Getting started with Teleport using Docker
description: How to get started with Teleport Open Source Edition using Docker locally.
h1: Run Teleport using Docker
---

This section will cover:

- Getting started with a local Teleport using Docker.
- Using Teleport with Teleport's native client, `tsh`.

## Prerequisites

- Teleport v(=teleport.version=) Open Source or Enterprise.
- Docker v(=docker.version=) or later.

```code
$ docker version
# Client: Docker Engine - Community
# Version:           (=docker.version=)
```

## Step 1/4. Pick your image

(!docs/pages/includes/image.mdx!)

## Step 2/4. Start teleport

Create teleport configs and start the process with sample `docker run` commands:

```code
# Create local config and data directories for teleport, which will be mounted into the container
$ mkdir -p ~/teleport/config ~/teleport/data
# Generate a sample teleport config and write it to the local config directory.
# This container will write the config and immediately exit - this is expected.
$ docker run --hostname localhost --rm \
  --entrypoint=/bin/sh \
  -v ~/teleport/config:/etc/teleport \
  (=teleport.latest_oss_docker_image=) -c "teleport configure > /etc/teleport/teleport.yaml"
# Start teleport with mounted config and data directories, plus all ports
$ docker run --hostname localhost --name teleport \
  -v ~/teleport/config:/etc/teleport \
  -v ~/teleport/data:/var/lib/teleport \
  -p 3023:3023 -p 3025:3025 -p 3080:3080 \
  (=teleport.latest_oss_docker_image=)
```

## Step 3/4. Creating a Teleport user

To create a user inside your Teleport container, use `docker exec`.

This example command will create a Teleport user called `testuser` which is allowed to log in as either operating system user `root` or `ubuntu`:

```code
$ docker exec teleport tctl users add testuser --roles=editor,access --logins=root,ubuntu,ec2-user
```

When you run this command, Teleport will output a URL that you must open to complete the user signup process:

```txt
User testuser has been created but requires a password. Share this URL with the user to complete user setup, link is valid for 1h0m0s:
https://localhost:3080/web/invite/4f2718a52ce107568b191f222ba069f7
NOTE: Make sure localhost:3080 points at a Teleport proxy which users can access.
```

The Web UI will be available at the displayed URL.

(!docs/pages/includes/insecure-certificate.mdx!)

## Step 4/4. tsh into your Teleport container

Finish signing up and creating your user using the generated link created previously.

[Download and install](https://goteleport.com/teleport/download) a copy of Teleport locally. Doing so will install the `tsh` tool so you can interact with Docker containers.

Open a second terminal and issue the command:

```code
$ tsh login --proxy=localhost --insecure --user=testuser
```

<Admonition type="note" title="Note">
  The `--insecure` flag is not recommended in production but can be used to bypass certain TLS and port requirements when testing locally.
</Admonition>

You will be prompted to enter the password and One-Time Passcode you created for your user `testuser`:

```txt
Enter password for Teleport user testuser:
Enter your OTP token:
9999999
```

After successfully authenticating you should see the following in your terminal:

```
WARNING: You are using insecure connection to SSH proxy https://localhost:3080
> Profile URL:        https://localhost:3080
  Logged in as:       testuser
  Cluster:            localhost
  Roles:              editor, access
  Logins:             root, ubuntu
  Kubernetes:         disabled
  Valid until:        2021-06-10 07:15:42 -0500 CDT [valid for 12h0m0s]
  Extensions:         permit-agent-forwarding, permit-port-forwarding, permit-pty
```

Running the next command will display all Teleport Nodes you're connected to:

```code
$ tsh ls

# Node Name Address        Labels                          
# --------- -------------- ------------------------------- 
# localhost 127.0.0.1:3022 env=example, hostname=localhost 
```

To SSH into the local Node `localhost` (running in your Docker container) issue the following `tsh` command:

```code
$ tsh ssh root@localhost
```

This will bring up the Linux command prompt where you can issue Bash commands, traverse the directory tree, and explore the container contents:

```txt
root@localhost:~# 
```

## Next steps

- Try out one of our [Helm Guides](../../kubernetes-access/helm/guides.mdx).
- Try out one of our [Database Access Guides](../../database-access/guides.mdx).
- Learn about [Teleport Server Access](../../server-access/introduction.mdx).

Commit message:

Address Cloud users in guides
- Edit the Google Workspace SSO guide to mention Teleport
  Cloud in the Prerequisites and add scoped Tabs components.
  Also add clarity edits.

- Edit the Azure AD SSO guide to mention Teleport Cloud and
  included scoped Tabs components.

- Add compabitility warning to the HSM guide, scaling guide,
  Docker guide, restricted session, and aws-terraform guide.

- Mention the cloud in session recording prerequisites.

docs/pages/setup/guides/docker.mdx, after:

---
title: Getting started with Teleport using Docker
description: How to get started with Teleport Open Source Edition using Docker locally.
h1: Run Teleport using Docker
---

This section will cover:

- Getting started with a local Teleport using Docker.
- Using Teleport with Teleport's native client, `tsh`.

<Details scope={["cloud"]} title="Teleport Cloud" scopeOnly={true} opened={true}>
Teleport Cloud includes managed instances of Teleport's Auth Service and Proxy Service. Since all of Teleport's services are run from the same binary, you can use our Docker image to run other services (e.g., the Database Service or App Service), or explore the Auth and Proxy Services locally.
</Details>

## Prerequisites

- Teleport v(=teleport.version=) Open Source or Enterprise.
- Docker v(=docker.version=) or later.

```code
$ docker version
# Client: Docker Engine - Community
# Version:           (=docker.version=)
```


## Step 1/4. Pick your image

(!docs/pages/includes/image.mdx!)

## Step 2/4. Start teleport

Create teleport configs and start the process with sample `docker run` commands:

```code
# Create local config and data directories for teleport, which will be mounted into the container
$ mkdir -p ~/teleport/config ~/teleport/data
# Generate a sample teleport config and write it to the local config directory.
# This container will write the config and immediately exit - this is expected.
$ docker run --hostname localhost --rm \
  --entrypoint=/bin/sh \
  -v ~/teleport/config:/etc/teleport \
  (=teleport.latest_oss_docker_image=) -c "teleport configure > /etc/teleport/teleport.yaml"
# Start teleport with mounted config and data directories, plus all ports
$ docker run --hostname localhost --name teleport \
  -v ~/teleport/config:/etc/teleport \
  -v ~/teleport/data:/var/lib/teleport \
  -p 3023:3023 -p 3025:3025 -p 3080:3080 \
  (=teleport.latest_oss_docker_image=)
```

## Step 3/4. Creating a Teleport user

To create a user inside your Teleport container, use `docker exec`.

This example command will create a Teleport user called `testuser` which is allowed to log in as either operating system user `root` or `ubuntu`:

```code
$ docker exec teleport tctl users add testuser --roles=editor,access --logins=root,ubuntu,ec2-user
```

When you run this command, Teleport will output a URL that you must open to complete the user signup process:

```txt
User testuser has been created but requires a password. Share this URL with the user to complete user setup, link is valid for 1h0m0s:
https://localhost:3080/web/invite/4f2718a52ce107568b191f222ba069f7
NOTE: Make sure localhost:3080 points at a Teleport proxy which users can access.
```

The Web UI will be available at the displayed URL.

(!docs/pages/includes/insecure-certificate.mdx!)

## Step 4/4. tsh into your Teleport container

Finish signing up and creating your user using the generated link created previously.

[Download and install](https://goteleport.com/teleport/download) a copy of Teleport locally. Doing so will install the `tsh` tool so you can interact with Docker containers.

Open a second terminal and issue the command:

```code
$ tsh login --proxy=localhost --insecure --user=testuser
```

<Admonition type="note" title="Note">
  The `--insecure` flag is not recommended in production but can be used to bypass certain TLS and port requirements when testing locally.
</Admonition>

You will be prompted to enter the password and One-Time Passcode you created for your user `testuser`:

```txt
Enter password for Teleport user testuser:
Enter your OTP token:
9999999
```

After successfully authenticating you should see the following in your terminal:

```
WARNING: You are using insecure connection to SSH proxy https://localhost:3080
> Profile URL:        https://localhost:3080
  Logged in as:       testuser
  Cluster:            localhost
  Roles:              editor, access
  Logins:             root, ubuntu
  Kubernetes:         disabled
  Valid until:        2021-06-10 07:15:42 -0500 CDT [valid for 12h0m0s]
  Extensions:         permit-agent-forwarding, permit-port-forwarding, permit-pty
```

Running the next command will display all Teleport Nodes you're connected to:

```code
$ tsh ls

# Node Name Address        Labels                          
# --------- -------------- ------------------------------- 
# localhost 127.0.0.1:3022 env=example, hostname=localhost 
```

To SSH into the local Node `localhost` (running in your Docker container) issue the following `tsh` command:

```code
$ tsh ssh root@localhost
```

This will bring up the Linux command prompt where you can issue Bash commands, traverse the directory tree, and explore the container contents:

```txt
root@localhost:~# 
```

## Next steps

- Try out one of our [Helm Guides](../../kubernetes-access/helm/guides.mdx).
- Try out one of our [Database Access Guides](../../database-access/guides.mdx).
- Learn about [Teleport Server Access](../../server-access/introduction.mdx).
