docs/pages/setup/guides/ec2-tags.mdx, before:

---
title: EC2 Tags as Teleport node labels
description: How to setup Teleport node labels based on EC2 tags
h1: Sync EC2 Tags and Teleport node labels
---

This section will explain how to setup Teleport node labels based on EC2 tags.

## Prerequisites

- Teleport v(=teleport.version=) Open Source or Enterprise.
- AWS instance running Teleport

## Step 1/3. Deploy the script

You’ll need a script on your instance which can query the AWS API and get the values of tags for you.

Here’s one you can use:

```bash
#!/bin/bash
if [[ "$1" == "" ]]; then
	echo "Usage: $(basename $0) <tag>"
	exit 1
fi
TAG_NAME=$1

IMDS_TOKEN=$(curl -sS -X PUT "http://169.254.169.254/latest/api/token" -H "X-aws-ec2-metadata-token-ttl-seconds: 300")
IMDS_TOKEN_HEADER="-H \"X-aws-ec2-metadata-token: ${IMDS_TOKEN}\""
INSTANCE_ID=$(curl -sS "${IMDS_TOKEN_HEADER}" http://169.254.169.254/latest/meta-data/instance-id)
REGION=$(curl -sS "${IMDS_TOKEN_HEADER}" http://169.254.169.254/latest/meta-data/placement/availability-zone | sed -e "s:\([0-9][0-9]*\)[a-z]*\$:\\1:")
TAG_VALUE="$(aws ec2 describe-tags --filters "Name=resource-id,Values=$INSTANCE_ID" "Name=key,Values=$TAG_NAME" --region $REGION --output=text | cut -f5)"

if [[ "${TAG_VALUE}" == "" ]]; then
	echo "<null>"
else
	echo $TAG_VALUE
fi
```

Save this script to `/usr/local/bin/get-tag.sh` on your EC2 instance.
Run the command below to make it executable:

```code
$ chmod +x /usr/local/bin/get-tag.sh
```

<Admonition type="note">
For the script to work, you’ll need `curl`, `python` and the `aws` command line tool installed.
`aws` comes from the awscli Python package, so you can install it using `pip3 install awscli` or similar.
If you don’t have `python`, `pip3` or curl installed, look for them in your OS’s package manager.
</Admonition>

## Step 2/3. Setup IAM role

Grant your EC2 instance an IAM role which will allow it to query tags values for EC2 instances.

Here’s an example policy which you can add to an IAM role:


```json
{
  "Version": "2012-10-17",
  "Statement": [
    {
      "Effect": "Allow",
      "Action": "ec2:DescribeTags",
      "Resource": "*"
    }
  ]
}
```

Once this is done, query the value of the test tag on your EC2 instance by running `/usr/local/bin/get-tag.sh` test:

```bash
[ec2-user@ip-172-31-26-55 ~]# /usr/local/bin/get-tag.sh test
tagValue
```

## Step 3/3. Modify config file

Modify your Teleport config file `/etc/teleport.yaml` to add commands to run on your node:

```yaml
teleport:
  ssh_service:
  enabled: yes
  listen_addr: 0.0.0.0:3022
  commands:
    - name: aws_tag_test
      command: ['/usr/local/bin/get-tag.sh', 'test']
      period: 1h
```

This config will add a label with the key `aws_tag_test` to your instance - its value will be set to whatever the test tag is set to and it will be updated once every hour.

Restart Teleport on the node and you should see the new label appear:

```txt
Node Name                     Address                                                                 Labels                                                                                      
----------------------------- ----------------------------------------------------------------------- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
example                       172.31.26.55:3022                                                       aws_tag_test=tagValue
```

Now you have a label on the instance which you can use inside a Teleport role. Here’s an example role:

```yaml
kind: role
version: v4
metadata:
  name: test-tag-role
spec:
  allow:
    logins:
    - ec2-user
    node_labels:
      'aws_tag_test': 'tagValue'
  deny: {}
  options:
    cert_format: standard
    forward_agent: true
    max_session_ttl: 2h0m0s
    port_forwarding: true
```

When assigned to Teleport users, this role will only allow them to log into Teleport nodes which have the `aws_tag_test` label with the value of tagValue, effectively gating access to infrastructure based on the value of the EC2 test tag.

By adding multiple commands to a Teleport node set to the values of different tags and then adding Teleport roles which reference them, you can build quite complex RBAC systems based off your EC2 tagging structure.

Commit message:

Mention Teleport Cloud in some of our guides
- Mention Teleport Cloud in the  Desktop Access guide
  prerequisites
- Minor style tweak to the K8s Agent guide
- Add a Cloud compatibility note to the Kubernetes cluster
  guide
- Make Cloud compatibility more explicit in the multiple-clusters
  guide
- Clarify the EC2 tag guide's relationship to Cloud (also add some
  general clarity tweaks)

docs/pages/setup/guides/ec2-tags.mdx, after:

---
title: EC2 Tags as Teleport node labels
description: How to setup Teleport node labels based on EC2 tags
h1: Sync EC2 Tags and Teleport node labels
---

This section will explain how to setup Teleport node labels based on EC2 tags.

## Prerequisites

- Teleport v(=teleport.version=) Open Source, Enterprise, or Cloud
- An AWS EC2 instance running a Teleport node

## Step 1/3. Deploy the script

You’ll need a script on your instance that can query the AWS API and get the values of your instance's tags for you. The Teleport node will then use these values to execute RBAC rules.

Here’s one script you can use:

```bash
#!/bin/bash
if [[ "$1" == "" ]]; then
	echo "Usage: $(basename $0) <tag>"
	exit 1
fi
TAG_NAME=$1

IMDS_TOKEN=$(curl -sS -X PUT "http://169.254.169.254/latest/api/token" -H "X-aws-ec2-metadata-token-ttl-seconds: 300")
IMDS_TOKEN_HEADER="-H \"X-aws-ec2-metadata-token: ${IMDS_TOKEN}\""
INSTANCE_ID=$(curl -sS "${IMDS_TOKEN_HEADER}" http://169.254.169.254/latest/meta-data/instance-id)
REGION=$(curl -sS "${IMDS_TOKEN_HEADER}" http://169.254.169.254/latest/meta-data/placement/availability-zone | sed -e "s:\([0-9][0-9]*\)[a-z]*\$:\\1:")
TAG_VALUE="$(aws ec2 describe-tags --filters "Name=resource-id,Values=$INSTANCE_ID" "Name=key,Values=$TAG_NAME" --region $REGION --output=text | cut -f5)"

if [[ "${TAG_VALUE}" == "" ]]; then
	echo "<null>"
else
	echo $TAG_VALUE
fi
```

Save this script to `/usr/local/bin/get-tag.sh` on your EC2 instance.
Run the command below to make it executable:

```code
$ chmod +x /usr/local/bin/get-tag.sh
```

<Admonition type="note">
For the script to work, you’ll need `curl`, `python` and the `aws` command line tool installed.
`aws` comes from the `awscli` Python package, so you can install it using `pip3 install awscli` or similar.

If you don’t have `python`, `pip3` or `curl` installed, look for them via your OS’s package manager.
</Admonition>

## Step 2/3. Set up an IAM role

Grant your EC2 instance an IAM role that will allow it to query tag values for EC2 instances.

Here’s an example policy which you can add to an IAM role:


```json
{
  "Version": "2012-10-17",
  "Statement": [
    {
      "Effect": "Allow",
      "Action": "ec2:DescribeTags",
      "Resource": "*"
    }
  ]
}
```

Once this is done, query the value of the test tag on your EC2 instance by running the following command:

```code
$ /usr/local/bin/get-tag.sh test
tagValue
```

## Step 3/3. Modify the Teleport node config file

Modify the Teleport config file on your node (`/etc/teleport.yaml`) as follows:

```yaml
teleport:
  ssh_service:
    enabled: yes
    listen_addr: 0.0.0.0:3022
    commands:
      - name: aws_tag_test
        command: ['/usr/local/bin/get-tag.sh', 'test']
        period: 1h
```

This config will add a label with the key `aws_tag_test` to your instance. Its value will be set to whatever the `test` tag is set to and it will be updated once every hour.

Restart Teleport on the node and you should see the new label appear:

```txt
Node Name                     Address                                                                 Labels                                                                                      
----------------------------- ----------------------------------------------------------------------- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
example                       172.31.26.55:3022                                                       aws_tag_test=tagValue
```

Now you have a label on the instance which you can use inside a Teleport role. Here’s an example role:

```yaml
kind: role
version: v4
metadata:
  name: test-tag-role
spec:
  allow:
    logins:
    - ec2-user
    node_labels:
      'aws_tag_test': 'tagValue'
  deny: {}
  options:
    cert_format: standard
    forward_agent: true
    max_session_ttl: 2h0m0s
    port_forwarding: true
```

When assigned to Teleport users, this role will only allow them to log in to Teleport nodes which have the `aws_tag_test` label with the value of tagValue, effectively gating access to infrastructure based on the value of the EC2 test tag.

By adding multiple commands to a Teleport node set to the values of different tags and then adding Teleport roles which reference them, you can build quite complex RBAC systems based off your EC2 tagging structure.
