docs/pages/setup/guides/joining-nodes-aws.mdx, before:

---
title: Joining Nodes in AWS
description: How to join nodes and proxies on EC2
h1: Joining Node and Proxies in AWS
---

This section will explain how to set up Teleport Nodes and Proxies to join your
Teleport cluster with the EC2 join method. The EC2 join method enables you to
allow Teleport nodes to join your Teleport cluster from EC2 instances in your
AWS account without sharing any secrets.

## Prerequisites

- Teleport v(=teleport.version=) Open Source or Enterprise.
- A running self-hosted Teleport cluster.
- AWS EC2 instance with Teleport installed.

## Step 1/4. Setup AWS permissions for your Auth server

Teleport Auth needs permission to call `ec2:DescribeInstances` in order to check
that the EC2 instances attempting to join your cluster are legitimate and
currently running.

### Step 1.1. Create the IAM policy

Create the following AWS IAM policy named `teleport-DescribeInstances-policy` in
your account:

```json
{
   "Version": "2012-10-17",
   "Statement": [
	   {
		   "Effect": "Allow",
		   "Action": "ec2:DescribeInstances",
		   "Resource": "*"
	   }
   ]
}
```

### Step 1.2. Attach the IAM policy

If your Teleport auth server is running on an EC2 instance and already has an
attached "IAM role for Amazon EC2", add the above
`teleport-DescribeInstances-policy` to the existing role. If the instance
does not already have an attached role, create an IAM role with the above
policy and attach it to your EC2 instance running the Teleport auth server.

If you are running your Teleport auth server outside of AWS you can attach
the `teleport-DescribeInstances-policy` directly to an IAM user which
Teleport will use to authenticate. You can provide the IAM credentials to
teleport through a shared configuration file or environment variables, see
https://aws.github.io/aws-sdk-go-v2/docs/configuring-sdk/#specifying-credentials
for details.

## Step 2/4. Create the AWS Node Joining Token

Configure your Teleport auth server with a special dynamic token which will
allow nodes from your AWS account to join your Teleport cluster. Nodes will
prove that they are running in your AWS account by sending a signed EC2 Instance
Identity Document which matches an allow rule configured in your AWS Node
Joining Token.

Create the following `token.yaml` with an `allow` rule specifying your AWS
account and the AWS regions in which your EC2 instances will run.

```
# token.yaml
kind: token
version: v2
metadata:
  # the token name is not a secret because instances must prove that they are
  # running in your AWS account to use this token
  name: ec2-token
  # set a long expiry time, the default for tokens is only 30 minutes
  expires: "3000-01-01T00:00:00Z"
spec:
  # use the minimal set of roles required
  roles: [Node]

  # aws_iid_ttl is the amount of time after the EC2 instance is launched during
  # which it should be allowed to join the cluster. Use a short TTL to decrease
  # the risk of stolen EC2 Instance Identity Documents being used to join your
  # cluster.
  aws_iid_ttl: 5m

  allow:
  - aws_account: "111111111111" # your AWS account ID
    aws_regions: # use the minimal set of AWS regions required
    - us-west-1
    - us-west-2
```

Run `tctl create token.yaml` to create the token on the auth server.

## Step 3/4. Configure your Nodes

The EC2 join method can be used for Teleport services running SSH, Proxy,
Kubernetes, Application, or Database roles. The service should be run directly
on an AWS EC2 instance and must have network access to the AWS EC2 IMDSv2
(enabled by default for most EC2 instances).

Configure your Teleport node with a custom `teleport.yaml` file. Use the
`join_params` section with `token_name` matching your token created in Step 2
and `method: ec2` as shown in the following example config:

```
# /etc/teleport.yaml
teleport:
  join_params:
    token_name: ec2-token
    method: ec2
  auth_servers:
  - https://teleport.example.com:443
ssh_service:
  enabled: yes
auth_service:
  enabled: no
proxy_service:
  enabled: no
```

## Step 4/4. Launch your Teleport Node

When launching your first Node, you may need to temporarily configure a higher
`aws_iid_ttl` value in the AWS Node Joining token so that you have time
to get Teleport set up and configured. This feature works best once Teleport is
configured in an EC2 AMI to start automatically on launch. You can edit the
`aws_iid_ttl` value by editing the token yaml file and re-running `tctl create
-f token.yaml`.

Start Teleport on the node and confirm that it is able to connect to and join
your cluster. You're all set!

## Next Steps

### Configuring AWS Node Joining for Multiple AWS Accounts

In order for Teleport nodes to join from EC2 instances in AWS accounts other
than the account in which your Teleport auth server is running, Teleport must
have permissions to assume an IAM role in each of those accounts and call
`ec2:DescribeInstances` in the foreign account.

In each AWS account where your EC2 instances will be running:

1. Create the `teleport-DescribeInstances-policy` from [Step 1.1](#step-11-create-the-iam-policy).

2. Create an IAM role `teleport-DescribeInstances-role` that can be assumed from
   the account where your Teleport auth server is running.

   Go to the AWS IAM Console, select Create Role, and for "Select type of
   trusted entity" select "Another AWS account" and enter the AWS Account ID of
   the account where your Teleport auth server is running.

   Attach the `teleport-DescribeInstances-policy` to the role.

In the AWS account where your Teleport auth server is running:

1. Create an IAM policy named `teleport-AssumeRole-policy` with an `AssumeRole`
   statement for each foreign account:

```json
{
   "Version": "2012-10-17",
   "Statement": [
        {
            "Effect": "Allow",
            "Action": "sts:AssumeRole",
            "Resource": "arn:aws:iam::222222222222:role/teleport-DescribeInstances-role"
        },
        {
            "Effect": "Allow",
            "Action": "sts:AssumeRole",
            "Resource": "arn:aws:iam::333333333333:role/teleport-DescribeInstances-role"
        }
   ]
}
```

2. Attach this `teleport-AssumeRole-policy` to the IAM role your Teleport auth
   server has credentials for, see [Step 1.2](#step-12-attach-the-iam-policy).

When creating the AWS Node Joining token, include an allow rule for each foreign
account and specify the AWS ARN for the foreign
`teleport-DescribeInstances-role`.

```yaml
# token.yaml
kind: token
version: v2
metadata:
  name: ec2-multiaccount-token
  expires: "3000-01-01T00:00:00Z"
spec:
  roles: [Node]
  aws_iid_ttl: 5m
  allow:
  - aws_account: "222222222222"
    aws_regions:
    - us-west-1
    - us-west-2
    aws_role: "arn:aws:iam::222222222222:role/teleport-DescribeInstances-role"
  - aws_account: "333333333333"
    aws_regions:
    - us-west-1
    - us-west-2
    aws_role: "arn:aws:iam::333333333333:role/teleport-DescribeInstances-role"
```

Commit message:

Mention Cloud compatibility in three guides
Server Access getting started:
- Remove the instructions to install and set up the Auth
  Service, and add references to main Getting Started guides
  and Cloud signup page.
- Add a prerequisite to have deployed the Auth Service and
  Proxy Service.

EC2 joining guide: make it explicit that the Cloud is not
compatible with this. Also make small style tweaks.

App Access getting started page:
- The guide assumes that you are running the Auth Service,
  Proxy Service, and App Service via the same binary, which
  does not work for Cloud users.

docs/pages/setup/guides/joining-nodes-aws.mdx, after:

---
title: Joining Nodes in AWS
description: How to join nodes and proxies on EC2
h1: Joining Node and Proxies in AWS
---

This section will explain how to set up Teleport nodes and Proxies to join your
Teleport cluster with the EC2 join method. The EC2 join method enables you to
allow Teleport nodes to join your Teleport cluster from EC2 instances in your
AWS account without sharing any secrets.

<Details title="Teleport Cloud Warning" scopeOnly={true} scope={["cloud"]}>
Since it is not currently possible to make AWS credentials available to an Auth Service running on Teleport Cloud, Teleport Cloud does not support the EC2 join method.
</Details>

## Prerequisites

- Teleport v(=teleport.version=) Open Source or Enterprise.
- A running self-hosted Teleport cluster.
- AWS EC2 instance with Teleport installed.

## Step 1/4. Set up AWS permissions for your Auth Server

Teleport Auth needs permission to call `ec2:DescribeInstances` in order to check
that the EC2 instances attempting to join your cluster are legitimate and
currently running.

### Step 1.1. Create the IAM policy

Create the following AWS IAM policy named `teleport-DescribeInstances-policy` in
your account:

```json
{
   "Version": "2012-10-17",
   "Statement": [
	   {
		   "Effect": "Allow",
		   "Action": "ec2:DescribeInstances",
		   "Resource": "*"
	   }
   ]
}
```

### Step 1.2. Attach the IAM policy

If your Teleport auth server is running on an EC2 instance and already has an
attached "IAM role for Amazon EC2", add the above
`teleport-DescribeInstances-policy` to the existing role. If the instance
does not already have an attached role, create an IAM role with the above
policy and attach it to your EC2 instance running the Teleport auth server.

If you are running your Teleport auth server outside of AWS you can attach
the `teleport-DescribeInstances-policy` directly to an IAM user which
Teleport will use to authenticate. You can provide the IAM credentials to
teleport through a shared configuration file or environment variables, see
https://aws.github.io/aws-sdk-go-v2/docs/configuring-sdk/#specifying-credentials
for details.

## Step 2/4. Create the AWS node joining token

Configure your Teleport auth server with a special dynamic token which will
allow nodes from your AWS account to join your Teleport cluster. Nodes will
prove that they are running in your AWS account by sending a signed EC2 Instance
Identity Document which matches an allow rule configured in your AWS node
joining token.

Create the following `token.yaml` with an `allow` rule specifying your AWS
account and the AWS regions in which your EC2 instances will run.

```
# token.yaml
kind: token
version: v2
metadata:
  # the token name is not a secret because instances must prove that they are
  # running in your AWS account to use this token
  name: ec2-token
  # set a long expiry time, the default for tokens is only 30 minutes
  expires: "3000-01-01T00:00:00Z"
spec:
  # use the minimal set of roles required
  roles: [Node]

  # aws_iid_ttl is the amount of time after the EC2 instance is launched during
  # which it should be allowed to join the cluster. Use a short TTL to decrease
  # the risk of stolen EC2 Instance Identity Documents being used to join your
  # cluster.
  aws_iid_ttl: 5m

  allow:
  - aws_account: "111111111111" # your AWS account ID
    aws_regions: # use the minimal set of AWS regions required
    - us-west-1
    - us-west-2
```

Run `tctl create token.yaml` to create the token on the auth server.

## Step 3/4. Configure your nodes

The EC2 join method can be used for Teleport services running SSH, Proxy,
Kubernetes, Application, or Database roles. The service should be run directly
on an AWS EC2 instance and must have network access to the AWS EC2 IMDSv2
(enabled by default for most EC2 instances).

Configure your Teleport node with a custom `teleport.yaml` file. Use the
`join_params` section with `token_name` matching your token created in Step 2
and `method: ec2` as shown in the following example config:

```
# /etc/teleport.yaml
teleport:
  join_params:
    token_name: ec2-token
    method: ec2
  auth_servers:
  - https://teleport.example.com:443
ssh_service:
  enabled: yes
auth_service:
  enabled: no
proxy_service:
  enabled: no
```

## Step 4/4. Launch your Teleport node

When launching your first node, you may need to temporarily configure a higher
`aws_iid_ttl` value in the AWS node joining token so that you have time
to get Teleport set up and configured. This feature works best once Teleport is
configured in an EC2 AMI to start automatically on launch. You can edit the
`aws_iid_ttl` value by editing the token yaml file and re-running `tctl create
-f token.yaml`.

Start Teleport on the node and confirm that it is able to connect to and join
your cluster. You're all set!

## Next Steps

### Configuring AWS node joining for multiple AWS accounts

In order for Teleport nodes to join from EC2 instances in AWS accounts other
than the account in which your Teleport auth server is running, Teleport must
have permissions to assume an IAM role in each of those accounts and call
`ec2:DescribeInstances` in the foreign account.

In each AWS account where your EC2 instances will be running:

1. Create the `teleport-DescribeInstances-policy` from [Step 1.1](#step-11-create-the-iam-policy).

2. Create an IAM role `teleport-DescribeInstances-role` that can be assumed from
   the account where your Teleport auth server is running.

   Go to the AWS IAM Console, select Create Role, and for "Select type of
   trusted entity" select "Another AWS account" and enter the AWS Account ID of
   the account where your Teleport auth server is running.

   Attach the `teleport-DescribeInstances-policy` to the role.

In the AWS account where your Teleport auth server is running:

1. Create an IAM policy named `teleport-AssumeRole-policy` with an `AssumeRole`
   statement for each foreign account:

```json
{
   "Version": "2012-10-17",
   "Statement": [
        {
            "Effect": "Allow",
            "Action": "sts:AssumeRole",
            "Resource": "arn:aws:iam::222222222222:role/teleport-DescribeInstances-role"
        },
        {
            "Effect": "Allow",
            "Action": "sts:AssumeRole",
            "Resource": "arn:aws:iam::333333333333:role/teleport-DescribeInstances-role"
        }
   ]
}
```

2. Attach this `teleport-AssumeRole-policy` to the IAM role your Teleport auth
   server has credentials for, see [Step 1.2](#step-12-attach-the-iam-policy).

When creating the AWS node joining token, include an allow rule for each foreign
account and specify the AWS ARN for the foreign
`teleport-DescribeInstances-role`.

```yaml
# token.yaml
kind: token
version: v2
metadata:
  name: ec2-multiaccount-token
  expires: "3000-01-01T00:00:00Z"
spec:
  roles: [Node]
  aws_iid_ttl: 5m
  allow:
  - aws_account: "222222222222"
    aws_regions:
    - us-west-1
    - us-west-2
    aws_role: "arn:aws:iam::222222222222:role/teleport-DescribeInstances-role"
  - aws_account: "333333333333"
    aws_regions:
    - us-west-1
    - us-west-2
    aws_role: "arn:aws:iam::333333333333:role/teleport-DescribeInstances-role"
```
