docs/pages/kubernetes-access/guides/multiple-clusters.mdx, before:

---
title: Kubernetes Access Multiple Clusters
description: Connecting a Kubernetes cluster to Teleport.
---

## Prerequisites

- [Kubernetes](https://kubernetes.io) >= v(=kubernetes.major_version=).(=kubernetes_minor_version=).0
- [Helm](https://helm.sh) >= (=helm.version=)
- Installed and running Teleport Cluster

(!docs/pages/includes/helm.mdx!)

## Connecting clusters

Teleport can act as an access plane for multiple Kubernetes clusters. 
We have set up the Teleport cluster `tele.example.com` in [SSO and Kubernetes](../getting-started.mdx).

Let's start a lightweight agent in another Kubernetes cluster `cookie` and connect it to `tele.example.com`.
We would need a join token from `tele.example.com`:

```code
# A trick to save the pod ID in tele.example.com
$ POD=$(kubectl get po -l app=teleport-cluster -o jsonpath='{.items[0].metadata.name}')
# Create a join token for the cluster cookie to authenticate
$ TOKEN=$(kubectl exec -ti "${POD?}" -- tctl nodes add --roles=kube --ttl=10000h --format=json | jq -r '.[0]')
$ echo $TOKEN
```

Switch `kubectl` to the Kubernetes cluster `cookie` and run:

```code
# Add teleport chart repository
$ helm repo add teleport https://charts.releases.teleport.dev

# Install Kubernetes agent. It dials back to the Teleport cluster tele.example.com.
$ CLUSTER='cookie'
$ PROXY='tele.example.com:443'
$ helm install teleport-agent teleport/teleport-kube-agent --set kubeClusterName=${CLUSTER?} \
  --set proxyAddr=${PROXY?} --set authToken=${TOKEN?} --create-namespace --namespace=teleport-agent
```

List connected clusters using `tsh kube ls` and switch between
them using `tsh kube login`:

```code
$ tsh kube ls

# Kube Cluster Name Selected 
# ----------------- -------- 
# cookie
# tele.example.com    *

# kubeconfig now points to the cookie cluster
$ tsh kube login cookie
# Logged into kubernetes cluster "cookie"

# kubectl command executed on `cookie` but is routed through `tele.example.com` cluster.
$ kubectl get pods
```

Commit message:

Mention Teleport Cloud in some of our guides
- Mention Teleport Cloud in the  Desktop Access guide
  prerequisites
- Minor style tweak to the K8s Agent guide
- Add a Cloud compatibility note to the Kubernetes cluster
  guide
- Make Cloud compatibility more explicit in the multiple-clusters
  guide
- Clarify the EC2 tag guide's relationship to Cloud (also add some
  general clarity tweaks)

docs/pages/kubernetes-access/guides/multiple-clusters.mdx, after:

---
title: Kubernetes Access Multiple Clusters
description: Connecting a Kubernetes cluster to Teleport.
---

This guide will show you how to use Teleport as an access plane for multiple Kubernetes clusters.

## Prerequisites

- [Kubernetes](https://kubernetes.io) >= v(=kubernetes.major_version=).(=kubernetes_minor_version=).0
- [Helm](https://helm.sh) >= (=helm.version=)
- Installed and running Teleport cluster (Open Source, Enterprise, or Teleport Cloud)

(!docs/pages/includes/helm.mdx!)

## Connecting clusters

Teleport can act as an access plane for multiple Kubernetes clusters. 
We have set up the Teleport cluster `tele.example.com` in [SSO and Kubernetes](../getting-started.mdx).

Let's start a lightweight agent in another Kubernetes cluster `cookie` and connect it to `tele.example.com`.

We will need a join token from `tele.example.com`:

```code
# A trick to save the pod ID in tele.example.com
$ POD=$(kubectl get pod -l app=teleport-cluster -o jsonpath='{.items[0].metadata.name}')
# Create a join token for the cluster cookie to authenticate
$ TOKEN=$(kubectl exec -ti "${POD?}" -- tctl nodes add --roles=kube --ttl=10000h --format=json | jq -r '.[0]')
$ echo $TOKEN
```

Switch `kubectl` to the Kubernetes cluster `cookie` and run:

```code
# Add teleport chart repository
$ helm repo add teleport https://charts.releases.teleport.dev

# Deploy a Kubernetes agent. It dials back to the Teleport cluster tele.example.com.
$ CLUSTER='cookie'
# For Cloud users this will be similar to mytenant.teleport.sh
$ PROXY='tele.example.com:443'
$ helm install teleport-agent teleport/teleport-kube-agent --set kubeClusterName=${CLUSTER?} \
  --set proxyAddr=${PROXY?} --set authToken=${TOKEN?} --create-namespace --namespace=teleport-agent
```

List connected clusters using `tsh kube ls` and switch between
them using `tsh kube login`:

```code
$ tsh kube ls

# Kube Cluster Name Selected 
# ----------------- -------- 
# cookie
# tele.example.com    *

# kubeconfig now points to the cookie cluster
$ tsh kube login cookie
# Logged into kubernetes cluster "cookie"

# kubectl command executed on `cookie` but is routed through `tele.example.com` cluster.
$ kubectl get pods
```
