docs/pages/server-access/guides/restricted-session.mdx, before:

---
title: Restricted Session for SSH
description: How restrict what can be performed under an SSH session
h1: Restricted Session for SSH
videoBanner: DgFZpWszL4M
---

With a Restricted Session, Teleport allows the administrator to specify a policy to
apply to SSH sessions. This policy can restrict access to certain resources. Currently
Teleport supports network restrictions with more types coming in the future.

## Prerequisites

Teleport 7.0+ with Restricted Sessions requires Linux kernel 5.8 (or above).

You can check your kernel version using the `uname` command. The output should look
something like the following.

```code
$ uname -r
# 5.8.17
```

### Linux distributions and supported kernels

<table>
<thead>
  <tr><td>Distro name</td><td>Distro version</td><td>Kernel version</td></tr>
</thead>
<tbody>
  <tr><td>Ubuntu "Groovy Gorilla"</td><td>20.10</td><td>5.8+</td></tr>
  <tr><td>Fedora</td><td>33</td><td>5.8+</td></tr>
  <tr><td>Archlinux</td><td>2020.09.01</td><td>5.8.5+</td></tr>
  <tr><td>Flatcar</td><td>2765.2.2</td><td>5.10.25+</td></tr>
</tbody>
</table>

## Network Restrictions

Network restrictions work similar to a firewall but with several differences:
1. Firewall rules apply to the entire machine whereas network restrictions are applied
   only to SSH sessions.
2. Whereas firewall typically blocks ingress (inbound) connections, network restrictions
   block egress (outbound) connections.
3. Firewall rules are typically static but Restricted Session comes with an API allowing the
   rules to be dynamically updated across the entire fleet.

## Step 1/4. Install and configure Teleport node

Follow our [installation instructions](../../installation.mdx) to install Teleport Auth, Proxy
and Nodes.

Set up the Teleport node with this `/etc/teleport.yaml`. See our [configuration file setup](../../setup/reference/config.mdx) for more instructions.

<Admonition type="note">
  Restricted Session requires Enhanced Recording to be enabled as well. This requirement will be removed in the future.
</Admonition>

```yaml
# Example config to be saved as /etc/teleport.yaml
teleport:
  nodename: graviton-node
  auth_token: exampletoken
  auth_servers:
  # Replace with IP of Teleport Auth server.
  - 127.0.0.1:3025
  data_dir: /var/lib/teleport
proxy_service:
  enabled: false
auth_service:
  enabled: false
ssh_service:
  enabled: true
  enhanced_recording:
    # Must be enabled for Restricted Sessions to work.
    enabled: true
    # Optional: Controls where cgroupv2 hierarchy is mounted. Default value:
    # /cgroup2.
    cgroup_path: /cgroup2

  restricted_session:
    enabled: true
```

## Step 2/4. Define a network restrictions policy

Create a file `netpolicy.yaml`:

```yaml
kind: network_restrictions
version: v4
metadata:
  name: network-restrictions
spec:
  # When Restricted Session is enabled, the network policy becomes
  # "deny-all". Must add back the ranges to allow
  allow:
    # Allow LAN access
    - cidr: 10.0.0.0/8
    - cidr: 172.16.0.0/12
    - cidr: 192.168.0.0/16

    # Allow link-local
    - cidr: 169.254.0.0/16
    - cidr: fe80::/10

    # Allow localhost
    - cidr: 127.0.0.0/8
    - cidr: ::1/128

  # Override "allow" list with exceptions
  deny:
    # Finance database
    - cidr: 10.1.2.4
```

Install the policy using `tctl`:

```code
$ tctl create -f netpolicy.yaml
# network restrictions have been updated
```

<Admonition type="note">
  - If the Restricted Session is not enabled in `teleport.yaml`, all network operations will be allowed.
  - When the Restricted Session is enabled but `network_restrictions` object has not been created via `tctl` or the API,
    the default policy stays allow-all.
  - However when the `network_restrictions` object is created, the default policy switches to deny-all.
    Be sure to add back all the necessary ranges into the allow list.
</Admonition>

## Step 3/4. Test by logging into node via Teleport

```code
$ curl -v https://google.com
# *   Trying 2607:f8b0:4005:809::200e:80...
# * TCP_NODELAY set
# * Immediate connect fail for 2607:f8b0:4005:809::200e: Operation not permitted
# *   Trying 172.217.6.78:80...
# * TCP_NODELAY set
# * Immediate connect fail for 172.217.6.78: Operation not permitted
# * Closing connection 0
# curl: (7) Couldn't connect to server
```

## Step 4/4. Inspect logs

The audit log will contain an entry with `session.network` event (there may be more entries present for the same `curl` command):

```json
{
  "ei": 173,
  "event": "session.network",
  "uid": "dda39eb4-13e1-45fd-a039-35b4dca1fa51",
  "code": "T4002I",
  "time": "2021-07-22T22:24:14.984Z",
  "cluster_name": "teleport-quickstart",
  "user": "demo",
  "login": "demo",
  "sid": "c8e0b0d5-3994-4221-b701-c1ae17d871f1",
  "namespace": "default",
  "server_id": "4951c001-8dad-4e21-abb6-c03f69b72d2e",
  "pid": 319267,
  "cgroup_id": 10863,
  "program": "curl",
  "src_addr": "0.0.0.0",
  "dst_addr": "216.58.194.206",
  "dst_port": 80,
  "version": 4,
  "operation": 0,
  "action": 1
}
```

This is the same event that is issued by Enhanced Recording. You can differentiate them by the `action` field.
Enhanced Recording sets the `action` to `0` (`OBSERVED`) while Restricted Session sets this value to `1` (`DENIED`).

<Admonition type="tip">
  Restricted Session requires Enhanced Recording to be enabled as well. This requirement will be removed in the future.
  To quickly check the status of the audit log, you can simply tail the logs with
  `tail -f /var/lib/teleport/log/events.log`, the resulting capture from Teleport will
  be a JSON log for each command and network request.
</Admonition>

Commit message:

Address Cloud users in guides
- Edit the Google Workspace SSO guide to mention Teleport
  Cloud in the Prerequisites and add scoped Tabs components.
  Also add clarity edits.

- Edit the Azure AD SSO guide to mention Teleport Cloud and
  included scoped Tabs components.

- Add compabitility warning to the HSM guide, scaling guide,
  Docker guide, restricted session, and aws-terraform guide.

- Mention the cloud in session recording prerequisites.

docs/pages/server-access/guides/restricted-session.mdx, after:

---
title: Restricted Session for SSH
description: How restrict what can be performed under an SSH session
h1: Restricted Session for SSH
videoBanner: DgFZpWszL4M
---

With a Restricted Session, Teleport allows the administrator to specify a policy to
apply to SSH sessions. This policy can restrict access to certain resources. Currently
Teleport supports network restrictions with more types coming in the future.

<Admonition type="tip" title="Compatibility Note">
This guide applies to Teleport Nodes. You can set up a Restricted Session while running the Open Source, Enterprise, or Cloud versions of the Teleport Auth Service and Proxy Service.
</Admonition>

## Prerequisites

Teleport 7.0+ with Restricted Sessions requires Linux kernel 5.8 (or above).


You can check your kernel version using the `uname` command. The output should look
something like the following.

```code
$ uname -r
# 5.8.17
```

### Linux distributions and supported kernels

<table>
<thead>
  <tr><td>Distro name</td><td>Distro version</td><td>Kernel version</td></tr>
</thead>
<tbody>
  <tr><td>Ubuntu "Groovy Gorilla"</td><td>20.10</td><td>5.8+</td></tr>
  <tr><td>Fedora</td><td>33</td><td>5.8+</td></tr>
  <tr><td>Archlinux</td><td>2020.09.01</td><td>5.8.5+</td></tr>
  <tr><td>Flatcar</td><td>2765.2.2</td><td>5.10.25+</td></tr>
</tbody>
</table>

## Network Restrictions

Network restrictions work similar to a firewall but with several differences:
1. Firewall rules apply to the entire machine whereas network restrictions are applied
   only to SSH sessions.
2. Whereas firewall typically blocks ingress (inbound) connections, network restrictions
   block egress (outbound) connections.
3. Firewall rules are typically static but Restricted Session comes with an API allowing the
   rules to be dynamically updated across the entire fleet.

## Step 1/4. Install and configure Teleport node

Follow our [installation instructions](../../installation.mdx) to install Teleport Auth Service, Proxy Service, and Nodes. For Teleport's managed deployments of the Auth Service and Proxy Service, sign up for a [free trial](https://goteleport.com/signup/) of Teleport Cloud.

Set up the Teleport node with this `/etc/teleport.yaml`. See our [configuration file setup](../../setup/reference/config.mdx) for more instructions.

<Admonition type="note">
  Restricted Session requires Enhanced Recording to be enabled as well. This requirement will be removed in the future.
</Admonition>

```yaml
# Example config to be saved as /etc/teleport.yaml
teleport:
  nodename: graviton-node
  auth_token: exampletoken
  auth_servers:
  # Replace with IP of Teleport Auth server.
  - 127.0.0.1:3025
  data_dir: /var/lib/teleport
proxy_service:
  enabled: false
auth_service:
  enabled: false
ssh_service:
  enabled: true
  enhanced_recording:
    # Must be enabled for Restricted Sessions to work.
    enabled: true
    # Optional: Controls where cgroupv2 hierarchy is mounted. Default value:
    # /cgroup2.
    cgroup_path: /cgroup2

  restricted_session:
    enabled: true
```

## Step 2/4. Define a network restrictions policy

Create a file `netpolicy.yaml`:

```yaml
kind: network_restrictions
version: v4
metadata:
  name: network-restrictions
spec:
  # When Restricted Session is enabled, the network policy becomes
  # "deny-all". Must add back the ranges to allow
  allow:
    # Allow LAN access
    - cidr: 10.0.0.0/8
    - cidr: 172.16.0.0/12
    - cidr: 192.168.0.0/16

    # Allow link-local
    - cidr: 169.254.0.0/16
    - cidr: fe80::/10

    # Allow localhost
    - cidr: 127.0.0.0/8
    - cidr: ::1/128

  # Override "allow" list with exceptions
  deny:
    # Finance database
    - cidr: 10.1.2.4
```

Install the policy using `tctl`:

```code
$ tctl create -f netpolicy.yaml
# network restrictions have been updated
```

<Admonition type="note">
  - If the Restricted Session is not enabled in `teleport.yaml`, all network operations will be allowed.
  - When the Restricted Session is enabled but `network_restrictions` object has not been created via `tctl` or the API,
    the default policy stays allow-all.
  - However when the `network_restrictions` object is created, the default policy switches to deny-all.
    Be sure to add back all the necessary ranges into the allow list.
</Admonition>

## Step 3/4. Test by logging into node via Teleport

```code
$ curl -v https://google.com
# *   Trying 2607:f8b0:4005:809::200e:80...
# * TCP_NODELAY set
# * Immediate connect fail for 2607:f8b0:4005:809::200e: Operation not permitted
# *   Trying 172.217.6.78:80...
# * TCP_NODELAY set
# * Immediate connect fail for 172.217.6.78: Operation not permitted
# * Closing connection 0
# curl: (7) Couldn't connect to server
```

## Step 4/4. Inspect logs

The audit log will contain an entry with `session.network` event (there may be more entries present for the same `curl` command):

```json
{
  "ei": 173,
  "event": "session.network",
  "uid": "dda39eb4-13e1-45fd-a039-35b4dca1fa51",
  "code": "T4002I",
  "time": "2021-07-22T22:24:14.984Z",
  "cluster_name": "teleport-quickstart",
  "user": "demo",
  "login": "demo",
  "sid": "c8e0b0d5-3994-4221-b701-c1ae17d871f1",
  "namespace": "default",
  "server_id": "4951c001-8dad-4e21-abb6-c03f69b72d2e",
  "pid": 319267,
  "cgroup_id": 10863,
  "program": "curl",
  "src_addr": "0.0.0.0",
  "dst_addr": "216.58.194.206",
  "dst_port": 80,
  "version": 4,
  "operation": 0,
  "action": 1
}
```

This is the same event that is issued by Enhanced Recording. You can differentiate them by the `action` field.
Enhanced Recording sets the `action` to `0` (`OBSERVED`) while Restricted Session sets this value to `1` (`DENIED`).

<Admonition type="tip">
  Restricted Session requires Enhanced Recording to be enabled as well. This requirement will be removed in the future.
  To quickly check the status of the audit log, you can simply tail the logs with
  `tail -f /var/lib/teleport/log/events.log`, the resulting capture from Teleport will
  be a JSON log for each command and network request.
</Admonition>
