docs/pages/includes/database-access/start-auth-proxy.mdx, before:

Download the latest version of Teleport for your platform from our
[downloads page](https://goteleport.com/teleport/download) and follow the
installation [instructions](../../installation.mdx).

Teleport requires a valid TLS certificate to operate and can fetch one automatically
using Let's Encrypt [ACME](https://letsencrypt.org/how-it-works/) protocol. We
will assume that you have configured DNS records for `teleport.example.com` and
`*.teleport.example.com` to point to the Teleport node.

Generate Teleport config with ACME enabled:

```code
$ teleport configure --cluster-name=teleport.example.com --acme --acme-email=alice@example.com -o file
```

<Admonition type="note" title="Web Proxy Port">
  Teleport uses [TLS-ALPN-01](https://letsencrypt.org/docs/challenge-types/#tls-alpn-01)
  ACME challenge to validate certificate requests which only works on port `443`.
  As such, in order to use ACME for certificate management, web proxy needs to
  be accessible on port `443`.
</Admonition>

Start Teleport Auth and Proxy services:

```code
$ sudo teleport start
```

Commit message:

Add notes about wildcard certificates
Guides to getting started with Teleport on various platforms
recommend creating a DNS record for *.teleport.com. It would help
prospective users to know why this is needed. This change adds
context for why Application Access requires a wildcard subdomain.

Fixes #5378

docs/pages/includes/database-access/start-auth-proxy.mdx, after:

Download the latest version of Teleport for your platform from our
[downloads page](https://goteleport.com/teleport/download) and follow the
installation [instructions](../../installation.mdx).

Teleport requires a valid TLS certificate to operate and can fetch one automatically
using Let's Encrypt [ACME](https://letsencrypt.org/how-it-works/) protocol. We
will assume that you have set up a DNS A record for `teleport.example.com` to point to the Teleport node.

<Details opened={false} title="Using Application Access?">
Teleport assigns a subdomain to each application you have configured for Application Access (e.g., `grafana.teleport.example.com`), so you will also need to create a DNS A record with a wildcard subdomain (e.g., `*.tele.example.com`). This way, Let's Encrypt can issue a wildcard certificate, enabling clients to verify your Teleport hosts regardless of the application they are accessing.

[Learn more about Teleport Application Access](../../application-access/getting-started.mdx)
</Details>

Generate Teleport config with ACME enabled:

```code
$ teleport configure --cluster-name=teleport.example.com --acme --acme-email=alice@example.com -o file
```

<Admonition type="note" title="Web Proxy Port">
  Teleport uses [TLS-ALPN-01](https://letsencrypt.org/docs/challenge-types/#tls-alpn-01)
  ACME challenge to validate certificate requests which only works on port `443`.
  As such, in order to use ACME for certificate management, web proxy needs to
  be accessible on port `443`.
</Admonition>

Start Teleport Auth and Proxy services:

```code
$ sudo teleport start
```
