docs/pages/enterprise/hsm.mdx, before:

---
title: HSM Support
description: How to configure Hardware Security Modules to manage your Teleport CA private keys
h1: Teleport HSM Support
---

This section will cover:

- Setting up a Teleport auth server to use an HSM to store and handle private
  keys.

## Prerequisites

- Teleport v(=teleport.version=) Enterprise self-hosted.
- An HSM reachable from your Teleport auth server.
- The PKCS#11 module for your HSM.

While most PKCS#11 HSMs should be supported, the Teleport team tests with AWS
CloudHSM, YubiHSM2, and SoftHSM2.

## Step 1/5. Set up your HSM

You will need to set up your HSM and make sure that it is accessible from your
Teleport auth server. You should create a unique HSM user or token for Teleport
to use.

<Tabs>
  <TabItem label="AWS CloudHSM">
Before getting started you should create and activate a CloudHSM cluster in
the VPC where you will run your Teleport auth server. Create a Crypto User (CU)
to be used by Teleport. See the AWS CloudHSM
[User Guide](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/cloudhsm/latest/userguide/getting-started.html)
for help.

On the EC2 instance where you will run your Teleport auth server:

1. Add the security group with the same name as your CloudHSM cluster to your
   EC2 instance, to allow incoming traffic from CloudHSM on ports 2223-2225.

2. Install and configure the CloudHSM client by following
   https://docs.aws.amazon.com/cloudhsm/latest/userguide/install-and-configure-client-linux.html.

3. Start the CloudHSM client.
   ```code
   $ sudo service start cloudhsm-client
   ```

4. Install the AWS CloudHSM Client SDK 3 by following
   https://docs.aws.amazon.com/cloudhsm/latest/userguide/pkcs11-library-install.html.

   This step installs the PKCS#11 module at `/opt/cloudhsm/lib/libcloudhsm_pkcs11.so`
  </TabItem>

  <TabItem label="YubiHSM2">
1. Install the YubiHSM2 [SDK](https://developers.yubico.com/YubiHSM2/Releases/).

2. Start `yubihsm-connector`

   ```code
   $ yubihsm-connector
   ```
3. Use `yubihsm-shell` to create a new authentication key to be used by
   Teleport with the below capabilities.
   <Admonition type="note">
   YubiHSM2 comes with a default authentication key at slot 1 with password
   `password`, you should replace and delete it as recommended by Yubico.

   When creating the authentication key to be used by teleport, the password
   must have at least 8 characters. The example `hunter22` is used here.
   </Admonition>

   ```text
   $ yubihsm-shell
   yubihsm> connect
   yubihsm> session open 1 password
   yubihsm> put authkey 0 0 "Teleport Auth Key" 1 generate-asymmetric-key:sign-pkcs:delete-asymmetric-key sign-pkcs:sign-pss:decrypt-pkcs:decrypt-oaep hunter22
   Stored Authentication key 0x53bf
   ```

   Take note of the hex slot number output above, it will be used in the pin
   when configuring Teleport.

4. Create a `yubihsm_pkcs11.conf` file pointing to your connector

   ```text
   # /etc/yubishm_pkcs11.conf
   connector = https://127.0.0.1:12345
   ```

5. Set the environment variable `YUBIHSM_PKCS11_CONF` to the path of your
   configuration file. This will be read by the PKCS#11 module and needs to be
   set in the Teleport auth server's environment.
   ```code
   $ export YUBIHSM_PKCS11_CONF=/etc/yubihsm_pkcs11.conf
   ```
  </TabItem>
</Tabs>

## Step 2/5. Configure Teleport

To configure Teleport to use an HSM for all CA private key generation, storage,
and signing, include the `ca_key_params` section in `/etc/teleport.yaml` on the
auth server.

<Tabs>
  <TabItem label="AWS CloudHSM">
```yaml
# /etc/teleport.yaml
teleport:
  ...

auth_service:
  enabled: true
  ...

  ca_key_params:
    pkcs11:
      module_path: /opt/cloudhsm/lib/libcloudhsm_pkcs11.so
      # token_label should always be "cavium" for CloudHSM
      token_label: "cavium"
      pin: "<CU_username>:<CU_password>"
      # pin_path can optionally be used to read the pin from a file
      # pin_path: /path/to/pin_file
```
  </TabItem>

  <TabItem label="YubiHSM2">
```yaml
# /etc/teleport.yaml
teleport:
  ...

auth_service:
  enabled: true
  ...

  ca_key_params:
    pkcs11:
      module_path: /usr/local/lib/pkcs11/yubihsm_pkcs11.dylib
      # slot_number should be set to 0 for YubiHSM2
      slot_number: 0
      # pin should be the (hex) slot of your authentication key,
      # concatenated with the password
      pin: "53bfhunter22"
      # pin_path can optionally be used to read the pin from a file
      # pin_path: /path/to/pin_file
```
  </TabItem>
</Tabs>

## Step 3/5. (Re)start Teleport Auth

If this is a new auth server which has not been started yet, starting a brand
new cluster with an empty backend, HSM keys will be automatically generated at
startup and no further action is required, skip to step 5. Otherwise, continue
reading.

If you are connecting an HSM to an existing Teleport cluster, restart the auth
server for the configuration changes to take effect. New CA keys will
automatically be generated in the HSM. For these keys to be trusted by the rest
of the cluster you will need to permorm a CA rotation, see
[Step 4](#step-45-certificate-rotation-with-hsm). The auth server will not perform
any signing operations until the rotation has started. In an HA cluster you
should add the HSM to the auth configuration one server at a time, and do not
route any traffic to the auth server where the HSM is currently being added.

## Step 4/5. Certificate Rotation with HSM

When adding a new HSM to an existing Teleport cluster, or adding a new
HSM-connected Auth server to an HA Teleport cluster, CA rotation needs to be
performed in order for the cluster to trust the new HSM certificates. `teleport`
will print a warning during startup if this needs to be completed, and will not
sign any certificates (except the `Admin` certificate used by `tctl` which will
be signed by a temporary HSM key). A warning will also be printed in `tctl
status` if this is required for any Auth server in the cluster.

CA rotation can be performed manually or semi-automatically, see our admin guide
on [Certificate rotation](../setup/operations/ca-rotation.mdx). To rotate the
CAs manually you can run:

```code
$ tctl status
WARNING: One or more auth servers has a newly added or removed HSM...
$ tctl auth rotate --manual --phase init
# all auth servers will generate new HSM keys, wait for logs to stabilize
$ tctl auth rotate --manual --phase update_clients
# wait for all teleport servers and clients to reload and receive new certs, up
# to ~10 minutes if all clients are connected
$ tctl auth rotate --manual --phase update_servers
# wait for all teleport servers to reload, up to ~10 minutes
$ tctl auth rotate --manual --phase standby
# rotation is complete
$ tctl status
# no warning should be printed
```

If you are updating a live cluster, make sure to wait for all nodes which may
intermittently lose connection to connect and receive new certs or they may lose
access to the cluster and have to re-join.

## Step 5/5. Confirm that Teleport is using your HSM

You are all set! Check the teleport logs for `Creating new HSM key pair` to
confirm that the feature is working. You can also check that keys were created
in your HSM using your HSM's admin tool.

Commit message:

Address Cloud users in guides
- Edit the Google Workspace SSO guide to mention Teleport
  Cloud in the Prerequisites and add scoped Tabs components.
  Also add clarity edits.

- Edit the Azure AD SSO guide to mention Teleport Cloud and
  included scoped Tabs components.

- Add compabitility warning to the HSM guide, scaling guide,
  Docker guide, restricted session, and aws-terraform guide.

- Mention the cloud in session recording prerequisites.

docs/pages/enterprise/hsm.mdx, after:

---
title: HSM Support
description: How to configure Hardware Security Modules to manage your Teleport CA private keys
h1: Teleport HSM Support
---

This guide will show you how to set up the Teleport Auth Server to use a hardware security module (HSM) to store and handle private keys.

## Prerequisites

- Teleport v(=teleport.version=) Enterprise (self-hosted).
- An HSM reachable from your Teleport auth server.
- The PKCS#11 module for your HSM.

<Details scope={["cloud", "oss"]} opened={true} scopeOnly={true} title="Compabitility Warning">
Teleport Cloud and Teleport Open Source do not currently support HSM.
</Details>

While most PKCS#11 HSMs should be supported, the Teleport team tests with AWS
CloudHSM, YubiHSM2, and SoftHSM2.

## Step 1/5. Set up your HSM

You will need to set up your HSM and make sure that it is accessible from your
Teleport Auth Server. You should create a unique HSM user or token for Teleport
to use.

<Tabs>
  <TabItem label="AWS CloudHSM">
Before getting started, you should create and activate a CloudHSM cluster in
the VPC where you will run your Teleport Auth Server. Create a Crypto User (CU)
to be used by Teleport. See the AWS CloudHSM
[User Guide](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/cloudhsm/latest/userguide/getting-started.html)
for help.

On the EC2 instance where you will run your Teleport Auth Server:

1. Add the security group with the same name as your CloudHSM cluster to your
   EC2 instance to allow incoming traffic from CloudHSM on ports 2223–2225.

2. Install and configure the CloudHSM client by following
   https://docs.aws.amazon.com/cloudhsm/latest/userguide/install-and-configure-client-linux.html.

3. Start the CloudHSM client.
   ```code
   $ sudo service start cloudhsm-client
   ```

4. Install the AWS CloudHSM Client SDK 3 by following
   https://docs.aws.amazon.com/cloudhsm/latest/userguide/pkcs11-library-install.html.

   This step installs the PKCS#11 module at `/opt/cloudhsm/lib/libcloudhsm_pkcs11.so`
  </TabItem>

  <TabItem label="YubiHSM2">
1. Install the YubiHSM2 [SDK](https://developers.yubico.com/YubiHSM2/Releases/).

2. Start `yubihsm-connector`

   ```code
   $ yubihsm-connector
   ```
3. Use `yubihsm-shell` to create a new authentication key to be used by
   Teleport with the below capabilities.
   <Admonition type="note">
   YubiHSM2 comes with a default authentication key at slot 1 with password
   `password`. You should replace and delete it as recommended by Yubico.

   When creating the authentication key to be used by Teleport, the password
   must have at least 8 characters. The example `hunter22` is used here.
   </Admonition>

   ```text
   $ yubihsm-shell
   yubihsm> connect
   yubihsm> session open 1 password
   yubihsm> put authkey 0 0 "Teleport Auth Key" 1 generate-asymmetric-key:sign-pkcs:delete-asymmetric-key sign-pkcs:sign-pss:decrypt-pkcs:decrypt-oaep hunter22
   Stored Authentication key 0x53bf
   ```

   Take note of the hex slot number output above. It will be used when configuring Teleport.

4. Create a `yubihsm_pkcs11.conf` file pointing to your connector

   ```text
   # /etc/yubishm_pkcs11.conf
   connector = https://127.0.0.1:12345
   ```

5. Set the environment variable `YUBIHSM_PKCS11_CONF` to the path of your
   configuration file. This will be read by the PKCS#11 module and needs to be
   set in the Teleport auth server's environment.
   ```code
   $ export YUBIHSM_PKCS11_CONF=/etc/yubihsm_pkcs11.conf
   ```
  </TabItem>
</Tabs>

## Step 2/5. Configure Teleport

To configure Teleport to use an HSM for all CA private key generation, storage,
and signing, include the `ca_key_params` section in `/etc/teleport.yaml` on the
auth server.

<Tabs>
  <TabItem label="AWS CloudHSM">
```yaml
# /etc/teleport.yaml
teleport:
  ...

auth_service:
  enabled: true
  ...

  ca_key_params:
    pkcs11:
      module_path: /opt/cloudhsm/lib/libcloudhsm_pkcs11.so
      # token_label should always be "cavium" for CloudHSM
      token_label: "cavium"
      pin: "<CU_username>:<CU_password>"
      # pin_path can optionally be used to read the pin from a file
      # pin_path: /path/to/pin_file
```
  </TabItem>

  <TabItem label="YubiHSM2">
```yaml
# /etc/teleport.yaml
teleport:
  ...

auth_service:
  enabled: true
  ...

  ca_key_params:
    pkcs11:
      module_path: /usr/local/lib/pkcs11/yubihsm_pkcs11.dylib
      # slot_number should be set to 0 for YubiHSM2
      slot_number: 0
      # pin should be the (hex) slot of your authentication key,
      # concatenated with the password
      pin: "53bfhunter22"
      # pin_path can optionally be used to read the pin from a file
      # pin_path: /path/to/pin_file
```
  </TabItem>
</Tabs>

## Step 3/5. (Re)start Teleport Auth

If this is a new auth server which has not been started yet, starting a brand
new cluster with an empty backend, HSM keys will be automatically generated at
startup and no further action is required, skip to step 5. Otherwise, continue
reading.

If you are connecting an HSM to an existing Teleport cluster, restart the auth
server for the configuration changes to take effect. New CA keys will
automatically be generated in the HSM. For these keys to be trusted by the rest
of the cluster you will need to permorm a CA rotation, see
[Step 4](#step-45-certificate-rotation-with-hsm). The auth server will not perform
any signing operations until the rotation has started. In an HA cluster you
should add the HSM to the auth configuration one server at a time, and do not
route any traffic to the auth server where the HSM is currently being added.

## Step 4/5. Certificate Rotation with HSM

When adding a new HSM to an existing Teleport cluster, or adding a new
HSM-connected Auth server to an HA Teleport cluster, CA rotation needs to be
performed in order for the cluster to trust the new HSM certificates. `teleport`
will print a warning during startup if this needs to be completed, and will not
sign any certificates (except the `Admin` certificate used by `tctl` which will
be signed by a temporary HSM key). A warning will also be printed in `tctl
status` if this is required for any Auth server in the cluster.

CA rotation can be performed manually or semi-automatically, see our admin guide
on [Certificate rotation](../setup/operations/ca-rotation.mdx). To rotate the
CAs manually you can run:

```code
$ tctl status
WARNING: One or more auth servers has a newly added or removed HSM...
$ tctl auth rotate --manual --phase init
# all auth servers will generate new HSM keys, wait for logs to stabilize
$ tctl auth rotate --manual --phase update_clients
# wait for all teleport servers and clients to reload and receive new certs, up
# to ~10 minutes if all clients are connected
$ tctl auth rotate --manual --phase update_servers
# wait for all teleport servers to reload, up to ~10 minutes
$ tctl auth rotate --manual --phase standby
# rotation is complete
$ tctl status
# no warning should be printed
```

If you are updating a live cluster, make sure to wait for all nodes which may
intermittently lose connection to connect and receive new certs or they may lose
access to the cluster and have to re-join.

## Step 5/5. Confirm that Teleport is using your HSM

You are all set! Check the teleport logs for `Creating new HSM key pair` to
confirm that the feature is working. You can also check that keys were created
in your HSM using your HSM's admin tool.
